ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/MWT/introduction.rst, before:

Introduction
============

MWT is a toolkit that simplifies the creation and use of graphical user interface widgets on a pixelated display.

The aim of this library is to be sufficient to create complex applications with a minimal framework. It provides the main concepts without managing particular needs. Specific needs can be met by a MWT expert by creating new widgets, adding more complex concepts, etc. The flexibility of the MWT open framework allows the selection of only what is necessary for the application in order to guarantee lightweight applications and fast execution.

To use the MWT library, add this Ivy dependency to your project:

.. code-block:: XML

	<dependency org="ej.library.ui" name="mwt" rev="3.0.0"/>

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

remove Ivy and point to module description file section

ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/MWT/introduction.rst, after:

Introduction
============

MWT is a toolkit that simplifies the creation and use of graphical user interface widgets on a pixelated display.

The aim of this library is to be sufficient to create complex applications with a minimal framework. It provides the main concepts without managing particular needs. Specific needs can be met by a MWT expert by creating new widgets, adding more complex concepts, etc. The flexibility of the MWT open framework allows the selection of only what is necessary for the application in order to guarantee lightweight applications and fast execution.

To use the MWT library, add the following line to a :ref:`module description file <mmm_module_description>`:

.. code-block:: XML

	<dependency org="ej.library.ui" name="mwt" rev="3.0.0"/>

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
