SDKUserGuide/install.rst, before:

.. _sdk_install:

Download and Install
====================

.. _sdk_download:

Download
--------

The SDK Distribution ``21.11`` is available for differents operating systems:

   - `Windows <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-21.11.exe>`__.
   - `Linux <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Linux64-21.11.zip>`__.
   - `MacOS Intel <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-21.11.zip>`__.


Check the :ref:`system-requirements` page for the list of supported environments.

.. note::

   A newer version, the ``22.06``, is also available for the following operating systems: `Windows <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-22.06.exe>`__, `Linux <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Linux64-22.06.zip>`__, `MacOS Intel <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-22.06.zip>`__ and `MacOS M1 <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-A64-22.06.zip>`__. It requires to have an :ref:`Architecture <architecture_overview>` ``7.17`` or more.
   So make sure to use the right Architecture version if you want to use this newer SDK Distribution version.


Once downloaded, execute the installer and follow the installation process.

If you need an older distribution of the SDK, it is available in the `SDK Downloads Page <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/>`_.


.. _sdk_installation_process:

Installation
--------------------

- Launch the installer and click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.


.. figure:: images/installation_process/welcome_screen.png
   :alt: Welcome screen
   :align: center

   Welcome to the installer

- Be aware of the licensing agreement.
- Select :guilabel:`I accept the terms of this license agreement.`. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/license_screen.png
   :alt: License screen
   :align: center

   Accept the terms of this license agreement

- Select the installation path of your SDK. By default it is ``C:/Program Files/MicroEJ/MicroEJ-SDK-{SDK_VERSION}`` for Windows. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_path_screen.png
   :alt: Installation path screen
   :align: center

   Choose the installation path

- Click on the :guilabel:`OK` button to confirm the installation path.


.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_validation_screen.png
   :alt: Confirm path screen
   :align: center

   Confirm your installation path

- Wait until the installation is done. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_progress_screen.png
   :alt:  Installation screen
   :align: center

   Installation in progress

- Select options depending on your own preferences. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/options_screen.png
   :alt: Options screen
   :align: center

   Select the options

- The installation has completed successfully. Click on the :guilabel:`Done` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_finished_screen.png
   :alt: End screen
   :align: center

   Your installation has completed successfully

The SDK is now installed on your computer. You can launch it from your application launcher or by executing the :guilabel:`MicroEJ` executable in the installation path.

At the first launch, please check if there is a newer version available (Select :guilabel:`Help` > :guilabel:`Check for updates`). If so, please install it. 



..
   | Copyright 2021-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

refactor the download links in a table

SDKUserGuide/install.rst, after:

.. _sdk_install:

Download and Install
====================

.. _sdk_download:

Download
--------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 5 10 30 30 30 30 

   * - **SDK Distribution**
     - **JDK Version**
     - **Eclipse Version**
     - **Windows**
     - **Linux**
     - **macOS x86_64 (Intel chip)**
     - **macOS aarch64 (M1 chip)**
   * - ``21.11``
     - ``8``
     - ``2020-06``
     - `Download for Windows <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-21.11.exe>`__
     - `Download for Linux <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Linux64-21.11.zip>`__
     - `Download for macOS Intel <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.11/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-21.11.zip>`__
     - `N/A`
   * - ``22.06``
     - ``11``
     - ``2022-03``
     - `Download for Windows <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-22.06.exe>`__
     - `Download for Linux <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Linux64-22.06.zip>`__
     - `Download for macOS Intel <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-22.06.zip>`__
     - `Download for macOS M1 <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/22.06/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-MacOS-A64-22.06.zip>`__

Check the :ref:`system-requirements` page for the list of supported environments.

.. note::

   SDK Distribution ``22.06`` requires to have an :ref:`Architecture <architecture_overview>` ``7.17`` or more.
   So make sure to use the right Architecture version if you want to use this newer SDK Distribution version.


Once downloaded, execute the installer and follow the installation process.

If you need an older distribution of the SDK, it is available in the `SDK Downloads Page <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/>`_.


.. _sdk_installation_process:

Installation
--------------------

- Launch the installer and click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.


.. figure:: images/installation_process/welcome_screen.png
   :alt: Welcome screen
   :align: center

   Welcome to the installer

- Be aware of the licensing agreement.
- Select :guilabel:`I accept the terms of this license agreement.`. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/license_screen.png
   :alt: License screen
   :align: center

   Accept the terms of this license agreement

- Select the installation path of your SDK. By default it is ``C:/Program Files/MicroEJ/MicroEJ-SDK-{SDK_VERSION}`` for Windows. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_path_screen.png
   :alt: Installation path screen
   :align: center

   Choose the installation path

- Click on the :guilabel:`OK` button to confirm the installation path.


.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_validation_screen.png
   :alt: Confirm path screen
   :align: center

   Confirm your installation path

- Wait until the installation is done. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_progress_screen.png
   :alt:  Installation screen
   :align: center

   Installation in progress

- Select options depending on your own preferences. Then click on the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/options_screen.png
   :alt: Options screen
   :align: center

   Select the options

- The installation has completed successfully. Click on the :guilabel:`Done` button.

.. figure:: images/installation_process/installation_finished_screen.png
   :alt: End screen
   :align: center

   Your installation has completed successfully

The SDK is now installed on your computer. You can launch it from your application launcher or by executing the :guilabel:`MicroEJ` executable in the installation path.

At the first launch, please check if there is a newer version available (Select :guilabel:`Help` > :guilabel:`Check for updates`). If so, please install it. 



..
   | Copyright 2021-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
