SDKUserGuide/repository.rst, before:

.. _module_repositories:

-------------------
Module Repositories
-------------------

This chapter describes the :ref:`module repositories <module_repository>` provided by MicroEJ Corp.

.. _central_repository:

MicroEJ Central Repository
==========================

The MicroEJ Central Repository is the module repository distributed and maintained by
MicroEJ Corp. It contains Foundation Library APIs and numerous Add-On Libraries. 

Use
---

By default, MicroEJ SDK is configured to connect the MicroEJ Central Repository. 

You can also manually browse the repository at https://repository.microej.com/modules/.

Before starting to develop production code, it is strongly recommended to import the repository to your local environment. 
Please follow the steps described at `<https://developer.microej.com/central-repository/>`_.

Licensing
---------

Please consult the ``LICENSE.txt`` file attached to each module.

Changelog
---------

The MicroEJ Central Repository content is versioned. The changelog is available at https://repository.microej.com/.

Please consult the ``CHANGELOG.md`` file attached to each module.

Javadoc
-------

To consult the APIs documentation (Javadoc) of all :ref:`libraries <libraries>` available in the repository, please visit `<https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/>`_.

.. _developer_repository:

Developer Repository
====================

The developer repository is an online repository hosted by MicroEJ Corp., contains community modules provided "as-is".
It is similar to what `Maven Central Repository <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/>`_ are for hosting Java standard modules.

MicroEJ Corp. contributes to the developer repository in the following cases:

- Demos (Platforms, Firmware, Virtual Devices, Applications),
- Incubating Libraries,
- Former MicroEJ Central Repository versions,
- Hardware specific modules.

Use
---

By default, MicroEJ SDK is configured to connect the developer repository [#warning_require_sdk_5_4]_.

You can also manually browse the repository at https://forge.microej.com/artifactory/microej-developer-repository-release/.

Before starting to develop production code, it is strongly recommended to transfer the desired modules to your local environment by creating your own :ref:`module repository <module_repository>` copy.

.. [#warning_require_sdk_5_4] Require SDK version ``5.4.0`` or higher.

Licensing
---------

Please consult the ``LICENSE.txt`` file attached to each module.

Changelog
---------

The developer repository is populated from multiple sources, thus there is no changelog for the whole repository content as it is the case of the MicroEJ Central Repository.

Please consult the ``CHANGELOG.md`` file attached to each module.

Javadoc
-------

To consult the APIs documentation (Javadoc) of :ref:`libraries <libraries>` available in the developer repository, please consult the javadoc attached to each module.

Community
---------

The developer repository can host modules developed by the community. 
If your organization plan to develop such module, please contact :ref:`our support team <get_support>` to get dedicated credentials for publication.

Content Organization
====================

The following table describes how are organized the :ref:`modules natures <module_natures>` within the repository.

.. list-table:: MicroEJ Modules Organization
   :widths: 40 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Organization
     - Module Nature
   * - ``ej.api``,
       ``com.microej.api``
     - Foundation Library API
   * - ``com.microej.architecture``
     - :ref:`MicroEJ Architecture <architecture_overview>`
   * - ``com.microej.pack``
     - :ref:`MicroEJ Pack <pack_overview>`
   * - ``ej.tool``,
       ``com.microej.tool``
     - Tool or Add-On processor
   * - Any other
     - Add-On Library

..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

bi-directional link on SDK modules of the central repo

SDKUserGuide/repository.rst, after:

.. _module_repositories:

-------------------
Module Repositories
-------------------

This chapter describes the :ref:`module repositories <module_repository>` provided by MicroEJ Corp.

.. _central_repository:

MicroEJ Central Repository
==========================

The MicroEJ Central Repository is the module repository distributed and maintained by
MicroEJ Corp. It contains Foundation Library APIs and numerous Add-On Libraries. 

Use
---

By default, MicroEJ SDK is configured to connect the MicroEJ Central Repository. 

You can also manually browse the repository at https://repository.microej.com/modules/.

Before starting to develop production code, it is strongly recommended to import the repository to your local environment. 
Please follow the steps described at `<https://developer.microej.com/central-repository/>`_.

.. _central-repository-licensing:

Licensing
---------

The Central Repository is a set of modules distributed under various software licenses, including the :ref:`sdk_eula` for some of them.
Please consult the ``LICENSE.txt`` file attached to each module.

Changelog
---------

The MicroEJ Central Repository content is versioned. The changelog is available at https://repository.microej.com/.

Please consult the ``CHANGELOG.md`` file attached to each module.

Javadoc
-------

To consult the APIs documentation (Javadoc) of all :ref:`libraries <libraries>` available in the repository, please visit `<https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/>`_.

.. _developer_repository:

Developer Repository
====================

The developer repository is an online repository hosted by MicroEJ Corp., contains community modules provided "as-is".
It is similar to what `Maven Central Repository <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/>`_ are for hosting Java standard modules.

MicroEJ Corp. contributes to the developer repository in the following cases:

- Demos (Platforms, Firmware, Virtual Devices, Applications),
- Incubating Libraries,
- Former MicroEJ Central Repository versions,
- Hardware specific modules.

Use
---

By default, MicroEJ SDK is configured to connect the developer repository [#warning_require_sdk_5_4]_.

You can also manually browse the repository at https://forge.microej.com/artifactory/microej-developer-repository-release/.

Before starting to develop production code, it is strongly recommended to transfer the desired modules to your local environment by creating your own :ref:`module repository <module_repository>` copy.

.. [#warning_require_sdk_5_4] Require SDK version ``5.4.0`` or higher.

Licensing
---------

Please consult the ``LICENSE.txt`` file attached to each module.

Changelog
---------

The developer repository is populated from multiple sources, thus there is no changelog for the whole repository content as it is the case of the MicroEJ Central Repository.

Please consult the ``CHANGELOG.md`` file attached to each module.

Javadoc
-------

To consult the APIs documentation (Javadoc) of :ref:`libraries <libraries>` available in the developer repository, please consult the javadoc attached to each module.

Community
---------

The developer repository can host modules developed by the community. 
If your organization plan to develop such module, please contact :ref:`our support team <get_support>` to get dedicated credentials for publication.

Content Organization
====================

The following table describes how are organized the :ref:`modules natures <module_natures>` within the repository.

.. list-table:: MicroEJ Modules Organization
   :widths: 40 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Organization
     - Module Nature
   * - ``ej.api``,
       ``com.microej.api``
     - Foundation Library API
   * - ``com.microej.architecture``
     - :ref:`MicroEJ Architecture <architecture_overview>`
   * - ``com.microej.pack``
     - :ref:`MicroEJ Pack <pack_overview>`
   * - ``ej.tool``,
       ``com.microej.tool``
     - Tool or Add-On processor
   * - Any other
     - Add-On Library

..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
