index.rst, before:

MicroEJ
=======

.. only:: html

   .. image:: images/header_docs.png
      :alt: Docs

Welcome to MicroEJ developer documentation.
Browse the following chapters to familiarize yourself with MicroEJ Technology and understand the principles of app and platform development with MicroEJ.

- The `Glossary <glossary.html>`_ chapter describes MicroEJ terminology.
- The `Overview <overview/index.html>`_ chapter introduces MicroEJ products and technology.
- The `Application Developer Guide <ApplicationDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ presents Java applications development and debugging tools.
- The `Platform Developer Guide <PlatformDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ teaches you how to integrate a C Board Support as well as simulation configurations.
- The `Kernel Developer Guide <KernelDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ introduces you to advanced concepts, such as partial updates and dynamic app life cycle workflows.
- The `Tutorials <Tutorials/index.html>`_ chapter covers a variety of topics related to developing with the MicroEJ ecosystem.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   Glossary <glossary>
   overview/index
   SDKUserGuide/index
   ApplicationDeveloperGuide/index
   PlatformDeveloperGuide/index
   KernelDeveloperGuide/index
   Tutorials/index
   support
   about

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

M0078DDG-411 Add an entry for the SDK USer Guide in the home page

index.rst, after:

MicroEJ
=======

.. only:: html

   .. image:: images/header_docs.png
      :alt: Docs

Welcome to MicroEJ developer documentation.
Browse the following chapters to familiarize yourself with MicroEJ Technology and understand the principles of app and platform development with MicroEJ.

- The `Glossary <glossary.html>`_ chapter describes MicroEJ terminology.
- The `Overview <overview/index.html>`_ chapter introduces MicroEJ products and technology.
- The `SDK User Guide <SDKUserGuide/index.html>`_ chapter presents the MicroEJ Software Development Kit.
- The `Application Developer Guide <ApplicationDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ presents how to develop a Java application.
- The `Platform Developer Guide <PlatformDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ teaches you how to integrate a C Board Support as well as simulation configurations.
- The `Kernel Developer Guide <KernelDeveloperGuide/index.html>`_ introduces you to advanced concepts, such as partial updates and dynamic app life cycle workflows.
- The `Tutorials <Tutorials/index.html>`_ chapter covers a variety of topics related to developing with the MicroEJ ecosystem.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   Glossary <glossary>
   overview/index
   SDKUserGuide/index
   ApplicationDeveloperGuide/index
   PlatformDeveloperGuide/index
   KernelDeveloperGuide/index
   Tutorials/index
   support
   about

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
