ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/ui.rst, before:

Graphics User Interface
========================

This section presents libraries relative to the user interface.

The following schema shows the overall architecture and modules:

.. figure:: images/ui_overview.png
   :alt: Graphics User Interface Overview
   :align: center

   Graphics User Interface Overview

.. note::

   This chapter describes the current Graphics User Interface version ``3``, provided by UI Pack version ``13.0.0`` or higher.
   If you are using the former Graphics User Interface version ``2`` (provided by MicroEJ UI Pack version up to ``12.4.x``),
   please refer to this `MicroEJ Documentation Archive <https://docs.microej.com/_/downloads/en/20201009/pdf/>`_. 

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   MicroUI/index
   MWT/index
   Widgets/index

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

graphics user interface -> graphical user interface

ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/ui.rst, after:

Graphical User Interface
========================

This section presents libraries relative to the user interface.

The following schema shows the overall architecture and modules:

.. figure:: images/ui_overview.png
   :alt: Graphical User Interface Overview
   :align: center

   Graphical User Interface Overview

.. note::

   This chapter describes the current Graphical User Interface version ``3``, provided by UI Pack version ``13.0.0`` or higher.
   If you are using the former Graphical User Interface version ``2`` (provided by MicroEJ UI Pack version up to ``12.4.x``),
   please refer to this `MicroEJ Documentation Archive <https://docs.microej.com/_/downloads/en/20201009/pdf/>`_. 

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   MicroUI/index
   MWT/index
   Widgets/index

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
