MicroEJ Overview
################

.. _section.microej.studio:

MicroEJ Editions
================

MicroEJ offers a comprehensive toolset to build the embedded software of
a device. The toolset covers two levels in device software development:

-  MicroEJ SDK for device firmware development

-  MicroEJ Studio for application development

The firmware will generally be produced by the device OEM, it includes
all device drivers and a specific set of MicroEJ functionalities useful
for application developers targeting this device.

.. figure:: ../ApplicationDeveloperGuide/png/toolchain.png
   :alt: MicroEJ Development Tools Overview
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Development Tools Overview

Using the MicroEJ SDK tool, a firmware developer will produce two
versions of the MicroEJ binary, each one able to run applications
created with the MicroEJ Studio tool:

-  A MicroEJ Firmware binary to be flashed on OEM devices;

-  A Virtual Device which will be used as a device simulator by
   application developers.

Using the MicroEJ Studio tool, an application developer will be able to:

-  Import Virtual Devices matching his target hardware in order to
   develop and test applications on the simulator;

-  Deploy the application locally on an hardware device equipped with
   the MicroEJ firmware;

-  Package and publish the application on a MicroEJ Forge Instance,
   enabling remote end users to install it on their devices. For more
   information about MicroEJ Forge, please consult
   :http:`https://www.microej.com/product/forge`.

.. _section.firmware:

MicroEJ Firmware
================

.. _section.bootable.binary:

Bootable Binary with Core Services
----------------------------------

A MicroEJ Firmware is a binary software program that can be programmed
into the flash memory of a device. A MicroEJ Firmware includes an
instance of a MicroEJ runtime linked to:

-  underlying native libraries and BSP + RTOS,

-  MicroEJ libraries and application code (C and Java code).

.. figure:: ../ApplicationDeveloperGuide/png/firmware.png
   :alt: MicroEJ Firmware Architecture
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Firmware Architecture

.. _section.javadoc:

Specification
-------------

The set of libraries included in the firmware and its dimensioning
limitations (maximum number of simultaneous threads, open connections,
â€¦) are firmware specific. Please refer to
:http:`https://developer.microej.com/5/getting-started-studio.html` for
evaluation firmware release notes.

.. _Standalone_vs_Sandboxed:

MicroEJ Applications
====================

Two kinds of applications can be developed on MicroEJ: MicroEJ
Standalone Applications and MicroEJ Sanboxed Applications.

A MicroEJ Standalone Application is a MicroEJ application that is
directly linked to the C code to produce a MicroEJ Firmware. Such
application must define a main entry point, i.e. a class containing a
``public static void main(String[])`` method. MicroEJ Standalone
Applications are developed using MicroEJ SDK.

A MicroEJ Sandboxed Application is a MicroEJ application that can run
over a Multi-Sandbox Firmware. It can be linked either statically or
dynamically. If it is statically linked, it is then called a System
Application as it is part of the initial image and cannot be removed.
MicroEJ Sandboxed Applications are developed using MicroEJ Studio.

A MicroEJ Multi-Sandbox Firmware is a MicroEJ Firmware that implements
the ability to be extended by exposing a set of APIs and a memory space
to link MicroEJ Sandboxed Applications. It can host several MicroEJ
Sandboxed applications.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
