ApplicationDeveloperGuide/repository.rst, before:

.. _module_repository:

Module Repository
=================

A module repository is a module that bundles a set of modules in a portable ZIP file. 
It is a tree structure where modules organizations and names are mapped to folders.

   .. figure:: images/repository-tree.*
      :alt: Example of MicroEJ Module Repository Tree
      :align: center

      Example of MicroEJ Module Repository Tree

A module repository takes its input modules from other repositories, usually the :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>` 
which is itself built by MicroEJ Corp. as a module repository.

A module repository is often called an offline repository as it includes the settings file for a local configuration in MicroEJ SDK.
It can also be imported in `MicroEJ Forge <https://www.microej.com/product/forge/>`_.


Create a Repository Project
---------------------------

In MicroEJ SDK, first create a new :ref:`module project <mmm_module_skeleton>` using the ``artifact-repository`` skeleton.

- The ``ivysettings.xml`` :ref:`settings file <mmm_settings_file>` describes how to import the modules of this repository when it is extracted locally on file system. 
  This file will be packaged at the root of the zip file and does not need to be modified.

- The ``module.ivy`` file describes how to build repository and lists the module dependencies that will be included in this repository.

Configure Resolver for Input Modules 
------------------------------------

MicroEJ Module Manager (MMM) needs to import dependencies to build the module repository. 
The location fetched by MMM is defined by a resolver.
The resolver is configured with the parameter ``bar.populate.from.resolver``. The preset value is the resolver
provided by default in MicroEJ SDK configuration, which is connected to :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>`.

.. code-block:: xml

   <ea:property name="bar.populate.from.resolver" value="MicroEJChainResolver"/>

The ``MicroEJChainResolver`` is a URL resolver defined in ``$USER_HOME\.microej\microej-ivysettings-[VERSION].xml`` that points to MicroEJ Central Repository.

To ensure the repository will be compliant with the :ref:`MMM specification <mmm_specification>`, add the following option:

.. code-block:: xml

   <ea:property name="bar.check.as.v2.module" value="true"/>

There are other advanced options that do not need to be modified by default. 
These options are described in the ``module.ivy`` generated by the skeleton.

Include Modules
---------------

Modules bundled into the module repository must be declared in the ``dependencies`` element of the ``module.ivy`` file.

Include a Single Module
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add a module, declare the module dependency using the ``artifacts`` configuration:

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>


For example, to add the ``ej.api.edc`` library version ``1.2.3``, write the following line:

.. code-block:: xml

   <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="ej.api" name="edc" rev="1.2.3" />

.. note::

   We recommended to manually describe each dependency of the module repository, in order to keep full control
   of the included modules as well as included modules versions.
   Module dependencies can still be transitively included by setting the dependency attribute ``transitive`` to ``true``. 
   In this case, the included module versions are those that have been resolved when the module was built.

Multiple versions of the same module can be included by declaring each dependency using a different configuration.
The ``artifacts`` configuration has to be derived with a new name as many times as there are different versions to include.

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 3,4,11,12

   <configurations defaultconfmapping="default->default;provided->provided">
      <conf name="artifacts" visibility="private"/>
      <conf name="artifacts_1" visibility="private"/>
      <conf name="artifacts_2" visibility="private"/>

      <!-- ... other configurations ... -->
   </configurations>

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_1]" />
      <dependency conf="artifacts_1->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_2]" />
      <dependency conf="artifacts_2->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_3]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>

Include a Module Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add all the modules already included in an other module repository, 
declare the module repository dependency using the ``repository`` configuration:

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="repository->*" transitive="false" org="[repository_org]" name="[repository_name]" rev="[repository_version]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>

Build the Repository
--------------------

In the Package Explorer, right-click on the repository project and select ``Build Module``.

The build consists of two steps:

1. Gathers all module dependencies. The whole repository content is created
   under ``target~/mergedArtifactsRepository`` folder.
2. Checks the repository consistency. For each module, it tries to import it from this repository
   and fails the build if at least one of the dependencies cannot be resolved.

The module repository ``.zip`` file is built in the ``target~/artifacts/`` folder. 
This file may be published along with a ``CHANGELOG.md``, ``LICENSE.txt`` and ``README.md``.

.. _repository_offline:

Use the Offline Repository
--------------------------

By default, when starting an empty workspace, MicroEJ SDK is configured to import dependencies
from :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>`. 

To configure MicroEJ SDK to import dependencies from a local module repository:

1. Unzip the module repository ``.zip`` file to the folder of your choice,
2. :ref:`Configure MMM settings file <mmm_settings_file>` using the ``ivysettings.xml`` file located at the root
   of the folder where the repository has been extracted.

Commit message:

Explain how to add the ivy `repository` configuration when embedding a module in a repository
The ivy `repository` configuration is required as per the declaration
above, but this configuration is not (yet) created by default in the
skeleton.

ApplicationDeveloperGuide/repository.rst, after:

.. _module_repository:

Module Repository
=================

A module repository is a module that bundles a set of modules in a portable ZIP file. 
It is a tree structure where modules organizations and names are mapped to folders.

   .. figure:: images/repository-tree.*
      :alt: Example of MicroEJ Module Repository Tree
      :align: center

      Example of MicroEJ Module Repository Tree

A module repository takes its input modules from other repositories, usually the :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>` 
which is itself built by MicroEJ Corp. as a module repository.

A module repository is often called an offline repository as it includes the settings file for a local configuration in MicroEJ SDK.
It can also be imported in `MicroEJ Forge <https://www.microej.com/product/forge/>`_.


Create a Repository Project
---------------------------

In MicroEJ SDK, first create a new :ref:`module project <mmm_module_skeleton>` using the ``artifact-repository`` skeleton.

- The ``ivysettings.xml`` :ref:`settings file <mmm_settings_file>` describes how to import the modules of this repository when it is extracted locally on file system. 
  This file will be packaged at the root of the zip file and does not need to be modified.

- The ``module.ivy`` file describes how to build repository and lists the module dependencies that will be included in this repository.

Configure Resolver for Input Modules 
------------------------------------

MicroEJ Module Manager (MMM) needs to import dependencies to build the module repository. 
The location fetched by MMM is defined by a resolver.
The resolver is configured with the parameter ``bar.populate.from.resolver``. The preset value is the resolver
provided by default in MicroEJ SDK configuration, which is connected to :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>`.

.. code-block:: xml

   <ea:property name="bar.populate.from.resolver" value="MicroEJChainResolver"/>

The ``MicroEJChainResolver`` is a URL resolver defined in ``$USER_HOME\.microej\microej-ivysettings-[VERSION].xml`` that points to MicroEJ Central Repository.

To ensure the repository will be compliant with the :ref:`MMM specification <mmm_specification>`, add the following option:

.. code-block:: xml

   <ea:property name="bar.check.as.v2.module" value="true"/>

There are other advanced options that do not need to be modified by default. 
These options are described in the ``module.ivy`` generated by the skeleton.

Include Modules
---------------

Modules bundled into the module repository must be declared in the ``dependencies`` element of the ``module.ivy`` file.

Include a Single Module
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add a module, declare the module dependency using the ``artifacts`` configuration:

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>


For example, to add the ``ej.api.edc`` library version ``1.2.3``, write the following line:

.. code-block:: xml

   <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="ej.api" name="edc" rev="1.2.3" />

.. note::

   We recommended to manually describe each dependency of the module repository, in order to keep full control
   of the included modules as well as included modules versions.
   Module dependencies can still be transitively included by setting the dependency attribute ``transitive`` to ``true``. 
   In this case, the included module versions are those that have been resolved when the module was built.

Multiple versions of the same module can be included by declaring each dependency using a different configuration.
The ``artifacts`` configuration has to be derived with a new name as many times as there are different versions to include.

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 3,4,11,12

   <configurations defaultconfmapping="default->default;provided->provided">
      <conf name="artifacts" visibility="private"/>
      <conf name="artifacts_1" visibility="private"/>
      <conf name="artifacts_2" visibility="private"/>

      <!-- ... other configurations ... -->
   </configurations>

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="artifacts->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_1]" />
      <dependency conf="artifacts_1->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_2]" />
      <dependency conf="artifacts_2->*" transitive="false" org="[module_org]" name="[module_name]" rev="[module_version_3]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>

Include a Module Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add all the modules already included in an other module repository,
add the configuration ``repository`` if it does not exist:

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   <configurations defaultconfmapping="default->default;provided->provided">
      <!-- ... other configurations ... -->
      <conf name="repository" visibility="private" description="Repository to be embedded in the repository" />

   </configurations>

Then declare the module repository dependency using the ``repository``
configuration:

.. code-block:: xml
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   <dependencies>
      <dependency conf="repository->*" transitive="false" org="[repository_org]" name="[repository_name]" rev="[repository_version]" />
        
      <!-- ... other dependencies ... -->
   </dependencies>

Build the Repository
--------------------

In the Package Explorer, right-click on the repository project and select ``Build Module``.

The build consists of two steps:

1. Gathers all module dependencies. The whole repository content is created
   under ``target~/mergedArtifactsRepository`` folder.
2. Checks the repository consistency. For each module, it tries to import it from this repository
   and fails the build if at least one of the dependencies cannot be resolved.

The module repository ``.zip`` file is built in the ``target~/artifacts/`` folder. 
This file may be published along with a ``CHANGELOG.md``, ``LICENSE.txt`` and ``README.md``.

.. _repository_offline:

Use the Offline Repository
--------------------------

By default, when starting an empty workspace, MicroEJ SDK is configured to import dependencies
from :ref:`MicroEJ Central Repository <central_repository>`. 

To configure MicroEJ SDK to import dependencies from a local module repository:

1. Unzip the module repository ``.zip`` file to the folder of your choice,
2. :ref:`Configure MMM settings file <mmm_settings_file>` using the ``ivysettings.xml`` file located at the root
   of the folder where the repository has been extracted.
