ApplicationDeveloperGuide/runtime.rst, before:

MicroEJ Runtime
===============

.. _mjvm_javalanguage:

Language
--------

MicroEJ allows to develop Applications in the `Java® Language Specification version 7 <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se7/jls7.pdf>`_, and supports code extensions written in :ref:`JavaScript <javascript>`.

Basically, Java source code is compiled by the Java compiler [1]_ into the binary format specified in the JVM specification [2]_. 
This binary code is linked by a tool named :ref:`SOAR <soar>` before execution: ``.class`` files and some other application-related files (see :ref:`Classpath <chapter.microej.classpath>` chapter) are linked to produce the final binary file that the :ref:`Core Engine <core_engine>` will execute.

.. [1]
   The JDT compiler from the Eclipse IDE.

.. [2]
   Tim Lindholm & Frank Yellin, The Java™ Virtual Machine Specification, Second Edition, 1999

.. _runtime_core_libraries:

Core Libraries
--------------

This section describes the core libraries which make up the runtime.
Theses Foundation Libraries are tightly coupled with the Core Engine.

.. _runtime_edc:

Embedded Device Configuration (EDC)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Embedded Device Configuration specification defines the minimal
standard runtime environment for embedded devices. It defines all
default API packages:

-  `java.io <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/io/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.annotation <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/annotation/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.ref <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/ref/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.reflect <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/reflect/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.util <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/util/package-frame.html>`_

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/libraries/edc-1.3-api/
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/edc/


.. _runtime_bon:

Beyond Profile (BON)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This profile defines a suitable and flexible way to fully control both memory
usage and start-up sequences on devices with limited memory resources.
It does so within the boundaries of Java semantics. More precisely, it
allows:

-  Controlling the initialization sequence in a deterministic way.

-  Defining persistent, immutable, read-only objects (that may be placed
   into non-volatile memory areas), and which do not require copies to
   be made in RAM to be manipulated.

-  Defining immortal, read-write objects that are always alive.

- Defining and accessing compile-time constants.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/bon/package-summary.html
   * - Specification
     - http://e-s-r.net/download/specification/ESR-SPE-0001-BON-1.2-F.pdf
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/bon/
 

.. _runtime_sni:

Simple Native Interface (SNI)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SNI provides a simple mechanism for implementing native Java methods in the C language.

SNI allows you to:

-  Call a C function from a Java method.
-  Access an Immortal array in a C function (see the :ref:`runtime_bon` to learn about immortal objects).

SNI does not allow you to:

-  Access or create a Java object in a C function (except byte arrays).
-  Access Java static variables in a C function.
-  Call Java methods from a C function.

SNI also provides some Java APIs to manipulate some data arrays between Java and the native (C) world.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/sni/package-summary.html
   * - Specification
     - http://e-s-r.net/download/specification/ESR-SPE-0012-SNI_GT-1.2-H.pdf
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/sni/

Please refer to :ref:`sni` section for more details.

.. _runtime_kf:

Kernel & Features (KF)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Kernel & Features semantic (KF) extends the runtime for managing Multi-Sandboxed Applications.

Please refer to the :ref:`kf_specification` for more details, the :ref:`Multi-Sandbox capability <multisandbox>` of the Core Engine
and more generally the :ref:`kernel-developer-guide` chapter.

Scheduler
---------

The Core Engine features a `Green Threads model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_threads>`_. The semantic is as follows:

-  preemptive for different priorities,
-  round-robin for same priorities,
-  "priority inheritance protocol" when priority inversion occurs. [3]_

Threads stacks automatically adapt their sizes according to the thread requirements: once a thread terminates,
its associated stack is reclaimed, freeing the corresponding RAM memory.


.. [3]

	This protocol raises the priority of a thread that is holding a monitor needed by a higher-priority thread,
	to the priority of that higher-priority thread (until exiting the monitor).
	
Garbage Collector
-----------------

The Core Engine includes a state-of-the-art memory management
system, the Garbage Collector (GC). It manages a bounded piece of RAM
memory, devoted to the Java world. The GC automatically frees dead Java
objects, and defragments the memory in order to optimize RAM usage. This
is done transparently while the Application keep running.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2023, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

Mention explicitely the Compliance level required for MicroEJ applications

ApplicationDeveloperGuide/runtime.rst, after:

MicroEJ Runtime
===============

.. _mjvm_javalanguage:

Language
--------

MicroEJ allows to develop Applications in the `Java® Language Specification version 7 <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se7/jls7.pdf>`_, and supports code extensions written in :ref:`JavaScript <javascript>`.

Basically, Java source code is compiled by the Java compiler [1]_ into the binary format specified in the JVM specification [2]_. 
This binary code is linked by a tool named :ref:`SOAR <soar>` before execution: ``.class`` files and some other application-related files (see :ref:`Classpath <chapter.microej.classpath>` chapter) are linked to produce the final binary file that the :ref:`Core Engine <core_engine>` will execute.

.. note:: Set the Compiler Compliance Level to 1.7 to ensure the bytecode produced by the Java compiler is compatible with MicroEJ. The Compliance Level can be changed from the IDE: :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`Java` > :guilabel:`Compiler`.

.. [1]
   The JDT compiler from the Eclipse IDE.

.. [2]
   Tim Lindholm & Frank Yellin, The Java™ Virtual Machine Specification, Second Edition, 1999

.. _runtime_core_libraries:

Core Libraries
--------------

This section describes the core libraries which make up the runtime.
Theses Foundation Libraries are tightly coupled with the Core Engine.

.. _runtime_edc:

Embedded Device Configuration (EDC)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Embedded Device Configuration specification defines the minimal
standard runtime environment for embedded devices. It defines all
default API packages:

-  `java.io <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/io/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.annotation <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/annotation/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.ref <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/ref/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.lang.reflect <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/lang/reflect/package-frame.html>`_
-  `java.util <https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/java/util/package-frame.html>`_

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/libraries/edc-1.3-api/
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/edc/


.. _runtime_bon:

Beyond Profile (BON)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This profile defines a suitable and flexible way to fully control both memory
usage and start-up sequences on devices with limited memory resources.
It does so within the boundaries of Java semantics. More precisely, it
allows:

-  Controlling the initialization sequence in a deterministic way.

-  Defining persistent, immutable, read-only objects (that may be placed
   into non-volatile memory areas), and which do not require copies to
   be made in RAM to be manipulated.

-  Defining immortal, read-write objects that are always alive.

- Defining and accessing compile-time constants.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/bon/package-summary.html
   * - Specification
     - http://e-s-r.net/download/specification/ESR-SPE-0001-BON-1.2-F.pdf
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/bon/
 

.. _runtime_sni:

Simple Native Interface (SNI)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SNI provides a simple mechanism for implementing native Java methods in the C language.

SNI allows you to:

-  Call a C function from a Java method.
-  Access an Immortal array in a C function (see the :ref:`runtime_bon` to learn about immortal objects).

SNI does not allow you to:

-  Access or create a Java object in a C function (except byte arrays).
-  Access Java static variables in a C function.
-  Call Java methods from a C function.

SNI also provides some Java APIs to manipulate some data arrays between Java and the native (C) world.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 30

   * - **Documentation**
     - **Link**
   * - Java APIs
     - https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/sni/package-summary.html
   * - Specification
     - http://e-s-r.net/download/specification/ESR-SPE-0012-SNI_GT-1.2-H.pdf
   * - Module
     - https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/sni/

Please refer to :ref:`sni` section for more details.

.. _runtime_kf:

Kernel & Features (KF)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Kernel & Features semantic (KF) extends the runtime for managing Multi-Sandboxed Applications.

Please refer to the :ref:`kf_specification` for more details, the :ref:`Multi-Sandbox capability <multisandbox>` of the Core Engine
and more generally the :ref:`kernel-developer-guide` chapter.

Scheduler
---------

The Core Engine features a `Green Threads model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_threads>`_. The semantic is as follows:

-  preemptive for different priorities,
-  round-robin for same priorities,
-  "priority inheritance protocol" when priority inversion occurs. [3]_

Threads stacks automatically adapt their sizes according to the thread requirements: once a thread terminates,
its associated stack is reclaimed, freeing the corresponding RAM memory.


.. [3]

	This protocol raises the priority of a thread that is holding a monitor needed by a higher-priority thread,
	to the priority of that higher-priority thread (until exiting the monitor).
	
Garbage Collector
-----------------

The Core Engine includes a state-of-the-art memory management
system, the Garbage Collector (GC). It manages a bounded piece of RAM
memory, devoted to the Java world. The GC automatically frees dead Java
objects, and defragments the memory in order to optimize RAM usage. This
is done transparently while the Application keep running.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2023, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
