ApplicationDeveloperGuide/sectionMicroEJTestsuite.rst, before:

Testsuite with JUnit
====================

MicroEJ allows to run unit tests using the standard JUnit API during the
build process of a MicroEJ library or a MicroEJ application. The MicroEJ
testsuite engine runs tests on a target Platform and outputs a JUnit XML
report.

Principle
---------

JUnit testing can be enabled when using the ``microej-javalib`` (MicroEJ
Add-On library) or the ``microej-application`` (MicroEJ Applications)
build type. JUnit test cases processing is automatically enabled when
the following dependency is declared in the ``module.ivy`` file of the
project.

::

   <dependency conf="test->*" org="ej.library.test" name="junit" rev="1.5.0"/>

When a new JUnit test case class is created in the ``src/test/java``
folder, a JUnit processor generates MicroEJ compliant classes into a
specific source folder named ``src-adpgenerated/junit/java``. These
files are automatically managed and must not be edited manually.

JUnit Compliance
----------------

MicroEJ is compliant with a subset of JUnit version 4. MicroEJ JUnit
processor supports the following annotations: ``@After``,
``@AfterClass``, ``@Before``, ``@BeforeClass``, ``@Ignore``, ``@Test``.

Each test case entry point must be declared using the ``org.junit.Test``
annotation (``@Test`` before a method declaration). Please refer to
JUnit documentation to get details on usage of other annotations.

Setup a Platform for Tests
--------------------------

Before running tests, a target platform must be configured in the
MicroEJ workspace. The following steps assume that a platform has been
previously imported into the MicroEJ Platform repository.

Go to ``Window > Preferences > MicroEJ > Platforms`` and select the
desired platform on which to run the tests.

Press ``F2`` to expand the details.

Select the the platform path and copy it to the clipboard.

Go to ``Window > Preferences > Ant > Runtime`` and select the
``Properties`` tab.

Click on ``Add Property...`` button and set a new property named
``target.platform.dir`` with the platform path pasted from the
clipboard.

Setup a Project with a JUnit Test Case
--------------------------------------

This section describes how to create a new JUnit Test Case starting from
a new MicroEJ library project.

Select ``File > New > Project... > EasyAnt > EasyAnt Project``.

Press ``Next``. Fill out project settings and select the
``microej-javalib`` skeleton A new project named ``mylibrary`` is
created in the workspace.

Right-click on the ``src/test/java`` folder and select ``New > Other...``
menu item.

Select the ``Java > JUnit > New JUnit Test Case`` wizard. Enter a test
name and press ``Finish``.A new JUnit test case class is created with a
default failing test case.

Build and Run a JUnit Testsuite
-------------------------------

Right-click on the ``mylibrary`` project and select ``Build with EasyAnt``.
After the library is built, the testsuite engine launches available test cases
and the build process fails in the console view.

On the ``mylibrary`` project, right-click and select ``Refresh``.

A ``target~`` folder appears with intermediate build files. The JUnit
report is available at ``target~\test\xml\TEST-test-report.xml``.

Double-click on the file to open the JUnit testsuite report.

Modify the test case by replacing

::

   fail("Not yet implemented");

with

::

   Assert.assertTrue(true);

Right-click again on the ``mylibrary`` project and select ``Build with EasyAnt``.
The test is now successfully executed on the target platform so the MicroEJ
add-on library is fully built and published without errors.

Double-click on the JUnit testsuite report to see the test has been
successfully executed.

Advanced Configurations
-----------------------

Autogenerated Test Classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The JUnit processor generates test classes into the
``src-adpgenerated/junit/java`` folder. This folder contains:

-  ``_AllTestClasses.java`` file: a single class with a main enty point
   that sequentially calls all declared test methods of all JUnit test
   case classes.

-  ``_AllTests_[TestCase].java`` files: for each JUnit test case class,
   a class with a main entry point that sequentially calls all declared
   test methods.

-  ``_SingleTest_[TestCase]_[TestMethod].java`` files: for each test
   method of each JUnit test case class, a class with a main entry point
   that calls the test method.

JUnit Test Case to MicroEJ Test Case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The MicroEJ testsuite engine allows to select the classes that will be
executed, by setting the following property in the project
``module.ivy`` file.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="[MicroEJ Test Case Include Pattern]"/>

The following line consider all JUnit test methods of the same class as
a single MicroEJ test case (default behaviour). If at least one JUnit
test method fails, the whole test case fails in the JUnit report.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="**/_AllTests_*.class"/>

The following line consider each JUnit test method as a dedicated
MicroEJ test case. Each test method is viewed independently in the JUnit
report, but this may slow down the testsuite execution because a new
deployment is done for each test method.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="**/_SingleTest_*.class"/>

Run a Single Test Manually
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each test can be run independently as each class contains a main entry
point.

In the ``src-adpgenerated/junit/java`` folder, right-click on the
desired autogenerated class
(``_SingleTest_[TestCase]_[TestMethod].java``) and select
``Run As > MicroEJ Application``.

The test is executed on the selected Platform and the output result is
dumped into the console.

Test Specific Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The MicroEJ testsuite engine allows to define MicroEJ Launch options
specific to each test case. This can be done by defining a file with the
same name as the generated test case file with the ``.properties``
extension instead of the ``.java`` extension. The file must be put in
the ``src/test/resources`` folder and within the same package than the
test case file.

Consult the Application Launch Options Appendix of the Device
Developer's Guide to get the list of available options properties.

Commit message:

Switch applicable literal elements to guilabel and kbd
Items that directly reference GUI labels will be styled differently, and
will stand out more than code elements would.

ApplicationDeveloperGuide/sectionMicroEJTestsuite.rst, after:

Testsuite with JUnit
====================

MicroEJ allows to run unit tests using the standard JUnit API during the
build process of a MicroEJ library or a MicroEJ application. The MicroEJ
testsuite engine runs tests on a target Platform and outputs a JUnit XML
report.

Principle
---------

JUnit testing can be enabled when using the ``microej-javalib`` (MicroEJ
Add-On library) or the ``microej-application`` (MicroEJ Applications)
build type. JUnit test cases processing is automatically enabled when
the following dependency is declared in the ``module.ivy`` file of the
project.

::

   <dependency conf="test->*" org="ej.library.test" name="junit" rev="1.5.0"/>

When a new JUnit test case class is created in the ``src/test/java``
folder, a JUnit processor generates MicroEJ compliant classes into a
specific source folder named ``src-adpgenerated/junit/java``. These
files are automatically managed and must not be edited manually.

JUnit Compliance
----------------

MicroEJ is compliant with a subset of JUnit version 4. MicroEJ JUnit
processor supports the following annotations: ``@After``,
``@AfterClass``, ``@Before``, ``@BeforeClass``, ``@Ignore``, ``@Test``.

Each test case entry point must be declared using the ``org.junit.Test``
annotation (``@Test`` before a method declaration). Please refer to
JUnit documentation to get details on usage of other annotations.

Setup a Platform for Tests
--------------------------

Before running tests, a target platform must be configured in the
MicroEJ workspace. The following steps assume that a platform has been
previously imported into the MicroEJ Platform repository.

Go to :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` >
:guilabel:`Platforms` and select the desired platform on which to run the tests.

Press :kbd:`F2` to expand the details.

Select the the platform path and copy it to the clipboard.

Go to :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`Ant` >
:guilabel:`Runtime` and select the :guilabel:`Properties` tab.

Click on :guilabel:`Add Property...` button and set a new property named
``target.platform.dir`` with the platform path pasted from the
clipboard.

Setup a Project with a JUnit Test Case
--------------------------------------

This section describes how to create a new JUnit Test Case starting from
a new MicroEJ library project.

Select :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`New` > :guilabel:`Project...` >
:guilabel:`EasyAnt` > :guilabel:`EasyAnt Project`.

Press :guilabel:`Next`. Fill out project settings and select the
``microej-javalib`` skeleton A new project named ``mylibrary`` is
created in the workspace.

Right-click on the ``src/test/java`` folder and select :guilabel:`New` >
:guilabel:`Other...` menu item.

Select the :guilabel:`Java` > :guilabel:`JUnit` > :guilabel:`New JUnit Test Case`
wizard. Enter a test name and press :guilabel:`Finish`. A new JUnit test case
class is created with a default failing test case.

Build and Run a JUnit Testsuite
-------------------------------

Right-click on the ``mylibrary`` project and select :guilabel:`Build with EasyAnt`.
After the library is built, the testsuite engine launches available test cases
and the build process fails in the console view.

On the ``mylibrary`` project, right-click and select :guilabel:`Refresh`.

A ``target~`` folder appears with intermediate build files. The JUnit
report is available at ``target~\test\xml\TEST-test-report.xml``.

Double-click on the file to open the JUnit testsuite report.

Modify the test case by replacing

::

   fail("Not yet implemented");

with

::

   Assert.assertTrue(true);

Right-click again on the ``mylibrary`` project and select :guilabel:`Build with EasyAnt`.
The test is now successfully executed on the target platform so the MicroEJ
add-on library is fully built and published without errors.

Double-click on the JUnit testsuite report to see the test has been
successfully executed.

Advanced Configurations
-----------------------

Autogenerated Test Classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The JUnit processor generates test classes into the
``src-adpgenerated/junit/java`` folder. This folder contains:

-  ``_AllTestClasses.java`` file: a single class with a main enty point
   that sequentially calls all declared test methods of all JUnit test
   case classes.

-  ``_AllTests_[TestCase].java`` files: for each JUnit test case class,
   a class with a main entry point that sequentially calls all declared
   test methods.

-  ``_SingleTest_[TestCase]_[TestMethod].java`` files: for each test
   method of each JUnit test case class, a class with a main entry point
   that calls the test method.

JUnit Test Case to MicroEJ Test Case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The MicroEJ testsuite engine allows to select the classes that will be
executed, by setting the following property in the project
``module.ivy`` file.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="[MicroEJ Test Case Include Pattern]"/>

The following line consider all JUnit test methods of the same class as
a single MicroEJ test case (default behaviour). If at least one JUnit
test method fails, the whole test case fails in the JUnit report.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="**/_AllTests_*.class"/>

The following line consider each JUnit test method as a dedicated
MicroEJ test case. Each test method is viewed independently in the JUnit
report, but this may slow down the testsuite execution because a new
deployment is done for each test method.

::

   <ea:property name="test.run.includes.pattern" value="**/_SingleTest_*.class"/>

Run a Single Test Manually
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each test can be run independently as each class contains a main entry
point.

In the ``src-adpgenerated/junit/java`` folder, right-click on the desired
autogenerated class (``_SingleTest_[TestCase]_[TestMethod].java``) and select
:guilabel:`Run As` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ Application`.

The test is executed on the selected Platform and the output result is
dumped into the console.

Test Specific Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The MicroEJ testsuite engine allows to define MicroEJ Launch options
specific to each test case. This can be done by defining a file with the
same name as the generated test case file with the ``.properties``
extension instead of the ``.java`` extension. The file must be put in
the ``src/test/resources`` folder and within the same package than the
test case file.

Consult the Application Launch Options Appendix of the Device
Developer's Guide to get the list of available options properties.
