Tutorials/tutorialGithub.rst, before:

MicroEJ and Github
==================

You may know that MicroEJ has an `account on Github <https://github.com/MicroEJ>`_. There, we share examples (like `examples for MWT <https://github.com/MicroEJ/ExampleJava-MWT>`_) libraries, tools and demos. In this article, we will explain how you can connect repositories from Gitub inside MicroEJ.

Both the MicroEJ Studio and MicroEJ SDK come with the EGit plugin built-in, so you can easily clone an existing repository. Here, we use the MWT Examples repository. From the Github page, you can copy the HTTP address of this repository from the dedicated field in the right menu (highlighted in red):

.. figure:: images/0-address-to-clone.png
   :alt: Address to clone
   :align: center

For this repository, the address is `<https://github.com/MicroEJ/ExampleJava-MWT.git>`_. In MicroEJ, open the Git perspective and select “Clone a Git repository” in the “Git Repositories” view. If have already copied the HTTP address, the fields are filed automatically:

.. figure:: images/1-location-to-clone.png
   :alt: Location to clone
   :align: center

Click Next, select the master branch, click Next and finally accept the proposed “Local Destination” by clicking Finish.

.. figure:: images/2-local-destination.png
   :alt: Local destination
   :align: center

You can now see the details of the repository in the “Git Repositories” view.

.. figure:: images/3-details-after-clone.png
   :alt: Details after clone
   :align: center

If you go back to the MicroEJ perspective and have a look at the “Package Explorer” view, you may be disappointed: there is no project! That’s normal because cloning a repository is just copying files from the remote repository to your local repository It has no effect on your MicroEJ workspace, only on your Git repository. You now have to import the project from the local Git repository into the MicroEJ workspace. To do so, go to File / Import / Git / Projects from Git.

.. figure:: images/4-import-type.png
   :alt: Import type
   :align: center

Click Next, select “Existing local repository”, click Next, select the Git repository to clone (in our example, its name is “ExampleJava-MWT”), click Next twice and finally Finish. “Package Explorer” view now contains the projects!

.. figure:: images/5-projects-imported.png
   :alt: Projects imported
   :align: center

If you want to import projects from another Github repository, you simply have to do the same procedure for the desired repository.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

rewrote the tutorial to explain cloning from the import menu

Tutorials/tutorialGithub.rst, after:

MicroEJ and Github
==================

You may know that MicroEJ has an `account on Github <https://github.com/MicroEJ>`_. There, we share examples (like `examples for MWT <https://github.com/MicroEJ/ExampleJava-MWT>`_) libraries, tools and demos. In this article, we will explain how you can connect repositories from Gitub inside MicroEJ.

Both the MicroEJ Studio and MicroEJ SDK come with the EGit plugin built-in, so you can easily clone an existing repository. Here, we use the MWT Examples repository. From the Github page, you can copy the HTTP address of this repository from the dedicated field in the right menu (highlighted in red):

.. figure:: images/0-address-to-clone.png
   :alt: Address to clone
   :align: center
   :width: 1103px
   :height: 548px

In MicroEJ SDK, to clone and import the project from the remote Git repository into the MicroEJ workspace, go to File / Import / Git / Projects from Git.

.. figure:: images/1-import-type.png
   :alt: Import type
   :align: center
   :width: 520px
   :height: 553px

Click Next, select “Clone URI”, click Next, enter the address of the remote repository in the URI field. For this repository, the address is `<https://github.com/MicroEJ/ExampleJava-MWT.git>`_. If have already copied the HTTP address, the fields are filed automatically. 

.. figure:: images/2-location-to-clone.png
   :alt: Location to clone
   :align: center
   :width: 512px
   :height: 544px

Click Next, select the master branch, click Next and accept the proposed “Local Destination” by clicking Next once again.

.. figure:: images/3-local-destination.png
   :alt: Local destination
   :align: center
   :width: 513px
   :height: 544px

Click Next once more and finally Finish. The “Package Explorer” view now contains the projects!

.. figure:: images/4-projects-imported.png
   :alt: Projects imported
   :align: center
   :width: 447px
   :height: 534px

If you want to import projects from another Github repository, you simply have to do the same procedure for the desired repository.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
