Tutorials/tutorialFootprintGuidelines.rst, before:

Optimize the Footprint of an Application
========================================

This guide explains how a developer can analyze the footprint of an application and how he can reduce both the ROM and the RAM footprint.

How to Analyze the Footprint of an Application
----------------------------------------------

This section explains the process of analyzing the footprint of a MicroEJ application and the tools used during the analysis.

Suggested footprint analysis process:

1. Run MicroEJ launcher on embedded platform
2. Analyze ``SOAR.map`` with the :ref:`memorymapanalyzer`
3. Analyze ``SOAR.xml`` with an XML editor
4. Link the MicroEJ application with the BSP
5. Analyze ``application.map`` with a text editor

Footprint analysis tools:

- The :ref:`memorymapanalyzer` allows to analyze the memory consumption of different features in the RAM and ROM.
- The :ref:`heapdumper` allow to understand the contents of the Java heap and find problems such as memory leaks.
- The `Dependency Discoverer <https://forum.microej.com/t/tool-dependency-discoverer/771>`_  allows to analyze a piece of code to detect all its dependencies.

How to Analyze a SOAR.map File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``SOAR.map`` file is generated after running a MicroEJ launcher on an embedded platform.
This file lists every embedded symbol of the application (section, Java class or method, etc.) and its size in ROM or RAM.
The ``SOAR.map`` file can be opened using the :ref:`memorymapanalyzer`.

The embedded symbols are grouped into multiple categories. For example, the ``Object`` class and its methods are in the ``LibFoundationEDC`` category.
For each symbol or each category, you can see its size in ROM (``Image Size``) and RAM (``Runtime Size``).

The linker regroups all the strings in the same section. The same applies to the static fields, the types and the class names. Each of these sections is displayed in its own category.

How to Analyze a SOAR.xml File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``soar/<MainClass>.xml`` file is generated after running a MicroEJ launcher on an embedded platform.
This file can be opened using any XML editor.

This file contains the list of:

- every embedded method and its size (in ``selected_methods`` tag)
- every embedded resource and its size (in ``selected_resources`` tag)
- every embedded property and its value (in ``java_properties`` tag)
- every embedded string (in ``selected_internStrings`` tag)
- every embedded type (in ``selected_types`` tag)
- every embedded immutable (in ``selected_immutables`` tag)

How to Analyze an application.map File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``<firmware>.map`` file is generated by the C toolchain after linking the MicroEJ application with the BSP.
This section explains how a map file generated by GCC is structured and how to browse it. The structure is not the same on every compiler but it is often similar.

File Structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This file is composed of 5 parts:

- ``Archive member included to satisfy reference by file``. Each entry contains two lines. The first line contains the referenced archive file location and the compilation unit. The second line contains the compilation unit referencing the archive and the symbol called.	
- ``Allocating common symbols``. Each entry contains the name of a global variable, its size, and the compilation unit where it is defined.
- ``Discarded input sections``. Each entry contains the name and the size of a section that has not been embedded in the firmware.
- ``Memory Configuration``. Each entry contains the name of a memory, its address, its size, and its attributes.
- ``Linker script and memory map``. Each entry contains a line with the name and compilation unit of a section and one line per symbol defined in this section. Each of these lines contains the name, the address, and the size of the symbol.

Finding the Size of a Section or Symbol
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For example, to know the thread stacks' size, search for the ``.bss.vm.stacks.java`` section in the ``Linker script and memory map`` part. The size associated with the compilation unit is the size used by the thread stacks.

The following snippet shows that the ``.bss.vm.stacks.java`` section takes 0x800 bytes.

.. code-block::

 .bss.vm.stacks.java
                0x20014070      0x800 ..\..\..\..\..\..\..\.microej\CM4hardfp_GCC48\application\microejapp.o
                0x20014070                __icetea___6bss_6vm_6stacks_6java$$Base
                0x20014870                __icetea___6bss_6vm_6stacks_6java$$Limit

How to Reduce the Image Size of an Application
----------------------------------------------

Generic coding rules may be found in the following tutorial: :ref:`javacodingrules`.

This section provides additional coding rules and good practices to reduce the image size (flash memory) of an application.

Application Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Resources such as images and fonts take a lot of memory.
For every ``.list`` file, make sure that it does not embed any unused resource. Having unused resources in the Java classpath is OK as long as they are not listed in a ``.list`` file.

Fonts
^^^^^

Removing the default font from the platform configuration
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

By default, in the platform configuration project, a so-called system font is declared inside the microui.xml file.

When generating the platform, this file is copied from the configuration project to the actual platform project. It will later be converted to binary format and linked with your Java application, even if you use fonts different from the system font.

Therefore, you can comment the system font from the microui.xml file to reduce the flash footprint of your Java application if this one does not rely on the system font. Note that you will need to rebuild the platform and then the application to benefit from the footprint reduction.

See the *Display Element* section of the :ref:`section_static_init` documentation for more info on system fonts.

Character ranges
""""""""""""""""

When creating a font, you can reduce the list of characters embedded in the font at several development stages:

- On font creation: see the *Removing Unused Characters* section of :ref:`section.tool.fontdesigner` documentation.
- On application build: see the *Fonts* section of :ref:`chapter.microej.classpath` documentation.

Pixel Transparency
""""""""""""""""""

You can also make sure that the BPP encoding used to achieve transparency for your fonts do not exceed the following values:

- The pixel depth of your display device.
- The required alpha level for a good rendering of your font in the application.

See the *Fonts* section of :ref:`chapter.microej.classpath` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

To save storage on FLASH, you can access fonts from an external storage device.

See the *External Resources* section of the :ref:`section_fontgen` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Internationalization Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Implementation
""""""""""""""

MicroEJ provides the Native Language Support (NLS for short) library to handle internationalization.

See https://github.com/MicroEJ/Example-NLS for an example of the use of the NLS library.

You can, of course, use your own internationalization library if you want. Whatever internationalization library you use, the tips below may be relevant to the footprint optimization domain.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

The default NLS implementation fetches text resources from internal flash, but you can replace it with your own implementation to fetch them from another location.

See :ref:`section_externalresourceloader` documentation for additional info on external resources management.

Compression
"""""""""""

The default NLS implementation relies on text resources that are not compressed, but you can use your own encoding to load them from compressed resources.

Images
^^^^^^

Encoding
""""""""

If you are tight on FLASH memory but have enough RAM and CPU power to decode PNG images on the fly, consider storing your images as PNG resources.
If you are in the opposite configuration (lots of FLASH, but little RAM and CPU power), consider storing your images in raw format.

See :ref:`section_image_generator` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Bits Per Pixel (BPP)
""""""""""""""""""""

Make sure to use images with a color depth not exceeding the one of your display to avoid the following issues:

- Waste of memory.
- Differences between the rendering on the target device and the original image resource.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

To save storage on FLASH, the application can access the images from an external storage device.

See :ref:`section_externalresourceloader` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Application Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application code guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Avoid using MicroUI 2 and MWT 2, use MicroUI 3 and MWT 3 instead. Many optimizations have been done in the new versions.
- Avoid manipulating ``String`` objects when possible. For example, prefer using integers to represent IDs. Indeed, strings take a lot of memory.
- Avoid using logging library or ``println()``, use the trace library (``ej.api#trace``) instead. The logging library uses strings, while the trace library is light and uses error codes.
- Avoid manipulating wrappers such as ``Integer`` and ``Long`` objects, manipulate primitive types instead. Objects take more memory and require boxing/unboxing operations.
- Avoid using service library, use singletons instead. The service library adds extra code which doesn't add any feature to your application. It also embeds reflection methods of EDC.
- Avoid using ``List`` objects, use arrays and ``ArrayTools`` instead. Even though the collections framework is very user-friendly, the code size and the heap usage are more important than when manipulating arrays.
- Avoid using ``Map`` objects, use ``PackedMap`` instead. Packed maps provide the same features as collection maps but are much lighter.
- Avoid using ``StringBuffer``, use ``StringBuilder`` instead. They do the same thing, except that ``StringBuffer`` is synchronized, and thus, it is heavier.
- Avoid using ``java.util.Timer``, use ``ej.bon.Timer`` instead. EDC's timers are now deprecated.
- Avoid serializing/deserializing data from byte arrays using manual bitwise operations, use ``ej.bon.ByteArray`` instead.
- Use BON constants when writing debug code or optional code, such as ``if (Constants.getBoolean()) { ... }``. That way, the optional code will not be embedded if the constant is ``false``.
- Avoid using system properties, use BON constants instead. Constants checks are computed at compile time rather than at runtime. Also, manipulating properties requires to embed their name, and strings take a lot of memory.
- Avoid using synchronization. A ``synchronized`` block takes a lot of extra code size, even though it is only a few characters of code.
- Avoid calling ``equals()`` and ``hashCode()`` on ``Object`` references. If you do, the method will be embedded for every class that overrides the method.
- Avoid using the string concatenation operator (``+``) when concatenating more than 2 objects into a single string, use ``StringBuilder`` instead. Multiple ``+`` take more code size than multiple ``StringBuilder.append()`` calls.
- Avoid using ``java.util.Calendar``, use another calendar implementation instead. The calendar implementation of EDC is very heavy, even when only a few methods are used.
- Avoid creating anonymous objects (such as ``Runnable`` objects), re-use other classes instead. Indeed, these objects are treated like a whole new class, and each enclosed final variable is treated as a field of the class.
- Avoid accessing the same field multiple times in the same method, copy the value of the field into a local variable instead. Accessing fields leads to bigger code size and may induce synchronization issues.

Platform Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following platform configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Use the latest MicroEJ architecture.
- Use tiny MEJ32 architecture. It reduces the code size by ~20% but it is only possible if the size of the application code is lower than 256KB (resources excluded). See dedicated documentation: :ref:`core-tiny`
- Don't embed unnecessary pixel conversion algorithms. This can save up to ~8KB of code size but it requires knowing the format of the resources embedded in the application.
- Use the best optimization level for every source file (for example, ``-O3`` or ``-Os`` on GCC).
- Use an optimal compiler such as IAR rather than GCC.
- Retrieve the linker command line and check that every parameter is OK. The linker command line can be found in the project settings, and it may be printed during link. For example, if there is ``-u _printf_float`` in the parameters, you can go in the project settings and disable printf for float if you so wish.
- In the ``application.map``, check that debug methods (such as SystemView) are not embedded in production.
- In the ``application.map``, check that every embedded method is necessary. For example, hardware timers or HAL components may be initialized in the BSP but not used in your application.

Application Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Disable class names generation by setting the ``soar.generate.classnames`` property to ``false``. Class names are only useful for logging and for reflection. In such case, the name of a specific class can be embedded by adding the class to the ``*.types.list`` file. Refer to :ref:`stripclassnames` for a dedicated tutorial.
- Remove UTF-8 encoding support by setting the ``cldc.encoding.utf8.included`` property to ``false``. The default encoding (``ISO-8859-1``) is enough for most applications.
- Remove ``SecurityManager`` checks by setting the ``com.microej.library.edc.securitymanager.enabled`` property to ``false``. This feature is only useful for multi-app firmware.
- Remove ``toString()`` methods by setting the ``com.microej.library.edc.tostring.included`` property to ``false``.

How to Reduce the Runtime Size of an Application
------------------------------------------------

You can find generic coding rules in the following tutorial: :ref:`javacodingrules`.

This section provides additional coding rules and good practices in order to reduce the runtime size (RAM) of an application.

Application Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application code guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Define fields as ``short`` or ``byte`` rather than ``int``.
- Don't declare arrays content in ``static final`` fields, use immutables instead.
- Make sure your widget hierarchy is as flat as possible (avoid unnecessary containers).
- Make sure that the size of the buffers can be configured (by a parameter in the constructor or by a BON constant for example).
- Avoid using immortal arrays to call native methods, use regular arrays instead.
- Avoid creating multiple threads, timers, or executors, share the instances instead when possible. Each thread requires allocating dedicated VM stacks, which take a lot of memory.
- Avoid creating mutable images (``BufferedImage`` instances) to draw in them and render them later, render graphics directly on the display instead. Mutable images require allocating a lot of memory from the images heap.

Platform Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following platform configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Check the size of the stack of each RTOS task. For example, 1.0KB may be enough for the MicroJVM task but it can be increased to allow deep native calls.
- Check the size of the heap allocated by the RTOS (for example, ``configTOTAL_HEAP_SIZE`` for FreeRTOS).
- Check that the size of the frame buffer matches the size of the screen. Use a partial buffer if the frame buffer does not fit in the RAM.

Debugging Stack Overflows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the size you allocate for a given RTOS task is too small, a stack overflow will occur. To be aware of stack overflows, proceed with the following steps when using FreeRTOS:

1. Enable the stack overflow check in ``FreeRTOS.h``:

.. code-block:: c

	#define configCHECK_FOR_STACK_OVERFLOW 1

2. Define the hook function in any file of your project (``main.c`` for example):

.. code-block:: c

	void vApplicationStackOverflowHook(TaskHandle_t xTask, signed char *pcTaskName) { }

3. Add a new breakpoint inside this function
4. When a stack overflow occurs, the execution will stop at this breakpoint

For further information, please refer to the `FreeRTOS documentation <https://www.freertos.org/Stacks-and-stack-overflow-checking.html>`_.

Application Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application.

Java Heap and Immortals Heap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the immortals heap to be as small as possible. You can get the minimum value by calling ``Immortals.freeMemory()`` after the creation of all the immortal objects.
- Configure the Java heap to fit the needs of the application. You can get the maximum heap usage by calling ``Runtime.freeMemory()`` after ``System.gc()`` at different moments in the application's lifecycle.

Thread Stacks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the maximum number of threads. This number can be known accurately by counting in the code how many ``Thread`` and ``Timer`` objects may run concurrently. You can call ``Thread.getAllStackTraces()`` or ``Thread.activeCount()`` to know what threads are running at a given moment.
- Configure the number of allocated thread stack blocks. Keep the default value for the size of a block (``512``) and figure out how many blocks each thread requires. This can be done empirically by starting with a low number of blocks and increasing this number as long as the application throws a ``StackOverflowError``.
- Configure the maximum number of blocks per thread. The best choice is to set it to the number of blocks required by the most greedy thread. Another acceptable option is to set it to the same value as the total number of allocated blocks.
- Configure the maximum number of monitors. This number can be known accurately by counting the number of concurrent ``synchronized`` blocks. This can also be done empirically by starting with a low number of monitors and increasing this number as long as no exception occurs. Either way, it is recommended to set a slightly higher value than calculated.

MicroUI Images Heap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the images heap to be as small as possible. You can compute the optimal size empirically. It can also be calculated accurately by adding the size of every image that may be stored in the images heap at a given moment. One way of doing this is to inspect every occurrence of ``new BufferedImage()`` and ``ResourceImage.loadImage()``.

Commit message:

M0078DDG-331 Add guideline on .platform modules

Tutorials/tutorialFootprintGuidelines.rst, after:

Optimize the Footprint of an Application
========================================

This guide explains how a developer can analyze the footprint of an application and how he can reduce both the ROM and the RAM footprint.

How to Analyze the Footprint of an Application
----------------------------------------------

This section explains the process of analyzing the footprint of a MicroEJ application and the tools used during the analysis.

Suggested footprint analysis process:

1. Run MicroEJ launcher on embedded platform
2. Analyze ``SOAR.map`` with the :ref:`memorymapanalyzer`
3. Analyze ``SOAR.xml`` with an XML editor
4. Link the MicroEJ application with the BSP
5. Analyze ``application.map`` with a text editor

Footprint analysis tools:

- The :ref:`memorymapanalyzer` allows to analyze the memory consumption of different features in the RAM and ROM.
- The :ref:`heapdumper` allow to understand the contents of the Java heap and find problems such as memory leaks.
- The `Dependency Discoverer <https://forum.microej.com/t/tool-dependency-discoverer/771>`_  allows to analyze a piece of code to detect all its dependencies.

How to Analyze a SOAR.map File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``SOAR.map`` file is generated after running a MicroEJ launcher on an embedded platform.
This file lists every embedded symbol of the application (section, Java class or method, etc.) and its size in ROM or RAM.
The ``SOAR.map`` file can be opened using the :ref:`memorymapanalyzer`.

The embedded symbols are grouped into multiple categories. For example, the ``Object`` class and its methods are in the ``LibFoundationEDC`` category.
For each symbol or each category, you can see its size in ROM (``Image Size``) and RAM (``Runtime Size``).

The linker regroups all the strings in the same section. The same applies to the static fields, the types and the class names. Each of these sections is displayed in its own category.

How to Analyze a SOAR.xml File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``soar/<MainClass>.xml`` file is generated after running a MicroEJ launcher on an embedded platform.
This file can be opened using any XML editor.

This file contains the list of:

- every embedded method and its size (in ``selected_methods`` tag)
- every embedded resource and its size (in ``selected_resources`` tag)
- every embedded property and its value (in ``java_properties`` tag)
- every embedded string (in ``selected_internStrings`` tag)
- every embedded type (in ``selected_types`` tag)
- every embedded immutable (in ``selected_immutables`` tag)

How to Analyze an application.map File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``<firmware>.map`` file is generated by the C toolchain after linking the MicroEJ application with the BSP.
This section explains how a map file generated by GCC is structured and how to browse it. The structure is not the same on every compiler but it is often similar.

File Structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This file is composed of 5 parts:

- ``Archive member included to satisfy reference by file``. Each entry contains two lines. The first line contains the referenced archive file location and the compilation unit. The second line contains the compilation unit referencing the archive and the symbol called.	
- ``Allocating common symbols``. Each entry contains the name of a global variable, its size, and the compilation unit where it is defined.
- ``Discarded input sections``. Each entry contains the name and the size of a section that has not been embedded in the firmware.
- ``Memory Configuration``. Each entry contains the name of a memory, its address, its size, and its attributes.
- ``Linker script and memory map``. Each entry contains a line with the name and compilation unit of a section and one line per symbol defined in this section. Each of these lines contains the name, the address, and the size of the symbol.

Finding the Size of a Section or Symbol
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For example, to know the thread stacks' size, search for the ``.bss.vm.stacks.java`` section in the ``Linker script and memory map`` part. The size associated with the compilation unit is the size used by the thread stacks.

The following snippet shows that the ``.bss.vm.stacks.java`` section takes 0x800 bytes.

.. code-block::

 .bss.vm.stacks.java
                0x20014070      0x800 ..\..\..\..\..\..\..\.microej\CM4hardfp_GCC48\application\microejapp.o
                0x20014070                __icetea___6bss_6vm_6stacks_6java$$Base
                0x20014870                __icetea___6bss_6vm_6stacks_6java$$Limit

How to Reduce the Image Size of an Application
----------------------------------------------

Generic coding rules may be found in the following tutorial: :ref:`javacodingrules`.

This section provides additional coding rules and good practices to reduce the image size (flash memory) of an application.

Application Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Resources such as images and fonts take a lot of memory.
For every ``.list`` file, make sure that it does not embed any unused resource. Having unused resources in the Java classpath is OK as long as they are not listed in a ``.list`` file.

Fonts
^^^^^

Removing the default font from the platform configuration
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

By default, in the platform configuration project, a so-called system font is declared inside the microui.xml file.

When generating the platform, this file is copied from the configuration project to the actual platform project. It will later be converted to binary format and linked with your Java application, even if you use fonts different from the system font.

Therefore, you can comment the system font from the microui.xml file to reduce the flash footprint of your Java application if this one does not rely on the system font. Note that you will need to rebuild the platform and then the application to benefit from the footprint reduction.

See the *Display Element* section of the :ref:`section_static_init` documentation for more info on system fonts.

Character ranges
""""""""""""""""

When creating a font, you can reduce the list of characters embedded in the font at several development stages:

- On font creation: see the *Removing Unused Characters* section of :ref:`section.tool.fontdesigner` documentation.
- On application build: see the *Fonts* section of :ref:`chapter.microej.classpath` documentation.

Pixel Transparency
""""""""""""""""""

You can also make sure that the BPP encoding used to achieve transparency for your fonts do not exceed the following values:

- The pixel depth of your display device.
- The required alpha level for a good rendering of your font in the application.

See the *Fonts* section of :ref:`chapter.microej.classpath` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

To save storage on FLASH, you can access fonts from an external storage device.

See the *External Resources* section of the :ref:`section_fontgen` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Internationalization Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Implementation
""""""""""""""

MicroEJ provides the Native Language Support (NLS for short) library to handle internationalization.

See https://github.com/MicroEJ/Example-NLS for an example of the use of the NLS library.

You can, of course, use your own internationalization library if you want. Whatever internationalization library you use, the tips below may be relevant to the footprint optimization domain.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

The default NLS implementation fetches text resources from internal flash, but you can replace it with your own implementation to fetch them from another location.

See :ref:`section_externalresourceloader` documentation for additional info on external resources management.

Compression
"""""""""""

The default NLS implementation relies on text resources that are not compressed, but you can use your own encoding to load them from compressed resources.

Images
^^^^^^

Encoding
""""""""

If you are tight on FLASH memory but have enough RAM and CPU power to decode PNG images on the fly, consider storing your images as PNG resources.
If you are in the opposite configuration (lots of FLASH, but little RAM and CPU power), consider storing your images in raw format.

See :ref:`section_image_generator` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Bits Per Pixel (BPP)
""""""""""""""""""""

Make sure to use images with a color depth not exceeding the one of your display to avoid the following issues:

- Waste of memory.
- Differences between the rendering on the target device and the original image resource.

External Storage
""""""""""""""""

To save storage on FLASH, the application can access the images from an external storage device.

See :ref:`section_externalresourceloader` documentation for more info on how to achieve that.

Application Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application code guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Avoid using MicroUI 2 and MWT 2, use MicroUI 3 and MWT 3 instead. Many optimizations have been done in the new versions.
- Avoid manipulating ``String`` objects when possible. For example, prefer using integers to represent IDs. Indeed, strings take a lot of memory.
- Avoid using logging library or ``println()``, use the trace library (``ej.api#trace``) instead. The logging library uses strings, while the trace library is light and uses error codes.
- Avoid manipulating wrappers such as ``Integer`` and ``Long`` objects, manipulate primitive types instead. Objects take more memory and require boxing/unboxing operations.
- Avoid using service library, use singletons instead. The service library adds extra code which doesn't add any feature to your application. It also embeds reflection methods of EDC.
- Avoid using ``List`` objects, use arrays and ``ArrayTools`` instead. Even though the collections framework is very user-friendly, the code size and the heap usage are more important than when manipulating arrays.
- Avoid using ``Map`` objects, use ``PackedMap`` instead. Packed maps provide the same features as collection maps but are much lighter.
- Avoid using ``StringBuffer``, use ``StringBuilder`` instead. They do the same thing, except that ``StringBuffer`` is synchronized, and thus, it is heavier.
- Avoid using ``java.util.Timer``, use ``ej.bon.Timer`` instead. EDC's timers are now deprecated.
- Avoid serializing/deserializing data from byte arrays using manual bitwise operations, use ``ej.bon.ByteArray`` instead.
- Use BON constants when writing debug code or optional code, such as ``if (Constants.getBoolean()) { ... }``. That way, the optional code will not be embedded if the constant is ``false``.
- Avoid using system properties, use BON constants instead. Constants checks are computed at compile time rather than at runtime. Also, manipulating properties requires to embed their name, and strings take a lot of memory.
- Avoid using synchronization. A ``synchronized`` block takes a lot of extra code size, even though it is only a few characters of code.
- Avoid calling ``equals()`` and ``hashCode()`` on ``Object`` references. If you do, the method will be embedded for every class that overrides the method.
- Avoid using the string concatenation operator (``+``) when concatenating more than 2 objects into a single string, use ``StringBuilder`` instead. Multiple ``+`` take more code size than multiple ``StringBuilder.append()`` calls.
- Avoid using ``java.util.Calendar``, use another calendar implementation instead. The calendar implementation of EDC is very heavy, even when only a few methods are used.
- Avoid creating anonymous objects (such as ``Runnable`` objects), re-use other classes instead. Indeed, these objects are treated like a whole new class, and each enclosed final variable is treated as a field of the class.
- Avoid accessing the same field multiple times in the same method, copy the value of the field into a local variable instead. Accessing fields leads to bigger code size and may induce synchronization issues.

Platform Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following platform configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Use the latest MicroEJ architecture.
- Use tiny MEJ32 architecture. It reduces the size of the application code by ~20% but it is only possible if the size of the application code is lower than 256KB (resources excluded). See dedicated documentation: :ref:`core-tiny`.
- Disable unnecessary modules in the ``.platform`` file. For example, disable the ``Image PNG Decoder`` module if you know that the application will not load PNG images at runtime.
- Don't embed unnecessary pixel conversion algorithms. This can save up to ~8KB of code size but it requires knowing the format of the resources embedded in the application.
- Use the best optimization level for every source file (for example, ``-O3`` or ``-Os`` on GCC).
- Use an optimal compiler such as IAR rather than GCC.
- Retrieve the linker command line and check that every parameter is OK. The linker command line can be found in the project settings, and it may be printed during link. For example, if there is ``-u _printf_float`` in the parameters, you can go in the project settings and disable printf for float if you so wish.
- In the ``application.map``, check that debug methods (such as SystemView) are not embedded in production.
- In the ``application.map``, check that every embedded method is necessary. For example, hardware timers or HAL components may be initialized in the BSP but not used in your application.

Application Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Disable class names generation by setting the ``soar.generate.classnames`` property to ``false``. Class names are only useful for logging and for reflection. In such case, the name of a specific class can be embedded by adding the class to the ``*.types.list`` file. Refer to :ref:`stripclassnames` for a dedicated tutorial.
- Remove UTF-8 encoding support by setting the ``cldc.encoding.utf8.included`` property to ``false``. The default encoding (``ISO-8859-1``) is enough for most applications.
- Remove ``SecurityManager`` checks by setting the ``com.microej.library.edc.securitymanager.enabled`` property to ``false``. This feature is only useful for multi-app firmware.
- Remove ``toString()`` methods by setting the ``com.microej.library.edc.tostring.included`` property to ``false``.

How to Reduce the Runtime Size of an Application
------------------------------------------------

You can find generic coding rules in the following tutorial: :ref:`javacodingrules`.

This section provides additional coding rules and good practices in order to reduce the runtime size (RAM) of an application.

Application Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application code guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Define fields as ``short`` or ``byte`` rather than ``int``.
- Don't declare arrays content in ``static final`` fields, use immutables instead.
- Make sure your widget hierarchy is as flat as possible (avoid unnecessary containers).
- Make sure that the size of the buffers can be configured (by a parameter in the constructor or by a BON constant for example).
- Avoid using immortal arrays to call native methods, use regular arrays instead.
- Avoid creating multiple threads, timers, or executors, share the instances instead when possible. Each thread requires allocating dedicated VM stacks, which take a lot of memory.
- Avoid creating mutable images (``BufferedImage`` instances) to draw in them and render them later, render graphics directly on the display instead. Mutable images require allocating a lot of memory from the images heap.

Platform Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following platform configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application:

- Check the size of the stack of each RTOS task. For example, 1.0KB may be enough for the MicroJVM task but it can be increased to allow deep native calls.
- Check the size of the heap allocated by the RTOS (for example, ``configTOTAL_HEAP_SIZE`` for FreeRTOS).
- Check that the size of the frame buffer matches the size of the screen. Use a partial buffer if the frame buffer does not fit in the RAM.

Debugging Stack Overflows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the size you allocate for a given RTOS task is too small, a stack overflow will occur. To be aware of stack overflows, proceed with the following steps when using FreeRTOS:

1. Enable the stack overflow check in ``FreeRTOS.h``:

.. code-block:: c

	#define configCHECK_FOR_STACK_OVERFLOW 1

2. Define the hook function in any file of your project (``main.c`` for example):

.. code-block:: c

	void vApplicationStackOverflowHook(TaskHandle_t xTask, signed char *pcTaskName) { }

3. Add a new breakpoint inside this function
4. When a stack overflow occurs, the execution will stop at this breakpoint

For further information, please refer to the `FreeRTOS documentation <https://www.freertos.org/Stacks-and-stack-overflow-checking.html>`_.

Application Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following application configuration guidelines are recommended in order to minimize the size of the application.

Java Heap and Immortals Heap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the immortals heap to be as small as possible. You can get the minimum value by calling ``Immortals.freeMemory()`` after the creation of all the immortal objects.
- Configure the Java heap to fit the needs of the application. You can get the maximum heap usage by calling ``Runtime.freeMemory()`` after ``System.gc()`` at different moments in the application's lifecycle.

Thread Stacks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the maximum number of threads. This number can be known accurately by counting in the code how many ``Thread`` and ``Timer`` objects may run concurrently. You can call ``Thread.getAllStackTraces()`` or ``Thread.activeCount()`` to know what threads are running at a given moment.
- Configure the number of allocated thread stack blocks. Keep the default value for the size of a block (``512``) and figure out how many blocks each thread requires. This can be done empirically by starting with a low number of blocks and increasing this number as long as the application throws a ``StackOverflowError``.
- Configure the maximum number of blocks per thread. The best choice is to set it to the number of blocks required by the most greedy thread. Another acceptable option is to set it to the same value as the total number of allocated blocks.
- Configure the maximum number of monitors. This number can be known accurately by counting the number of concurrent ``synchronized`` blocks. This can also be done empirically by starting with a low number of monitors and increasing this number as long as no exception occurs. Either way, it is recommended to set a slightly higher value than calculated.

MicroUI Images Heap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Configure the images heap to be as small as possible. You can compute the optimal size empirically. It can also be calculated accurately by adding the size of every image that may be stored in the images heap at a given moment. One way of doing this is to inspect every occurrence of ``new BufferedImage()`` and ``ResourceImage.loadImage()``.
