Tutorials/getStartedWithGUI/setup.rst, before:

Setup your Environment
======================

Prerequisites
-------------

- Supported Operating System: MICROEJ SDK runs on the following operating systems: Windows (7, 8, 8.1, 10), Linux, macos.
- A Java™ Runtime Environment 8 is needed on your host computer for running MICROEJ SDK Dist. 21.03: `Download Java <https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp>`__.

Download and Install
--------------------

#.  Download the installer package corresponding to your host computer OS: `Download MicroEJ SDK <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/>`__.

#.  Unzip the downloaded installer package if needed and execute the installer.


Start the IDE for the First Time
--------------------------------

#. Start MICROEJ SDK and select a workspace. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with Eclipse workspaces, select the default and press OK.
   
#. Select the MICROEJ repository. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with MICROEJ repositories, select the default and press OK.

Prepare Platform Sources
------------------------

#. Download and unzip the platform sources for STM32F7508-DK by clicking on :guilabel:`Download` > :guilabel:`Download ZIP`: 
   `Go to the Github repository <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Platform-STMicroelectronics-STM32F7508-DK/tree/1.3.2>`__.
#. Follow the README to import the platform sources, activate your license and build your platform, in the Platform Setup section.
#. Once all the steps of the platform setup are done, a new Java project can be created.

Create a New Project
--------------------

Go to :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`New` > :guilabel:`Standalone Application Project`:

.. image:: images/createStandaloneProject.png
   :align: center

The project structure should look like this:

.. image:: images/structure.png
   :align: center

Featured Project: Widget Demo
-----------------------------

You can have a look at the widget demo project, which contains multiple samples of widgets and usage.

- `Widget Demo GitHub Repository <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Demo-Widget>`__

.. image:: images/widgetdemo.png
   :align: center

Commit message:

M0137W-616 Enable linkchecker and remove failing link
This change enables the linkchecker and removes the failing link : https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp
This link seems correct but for some reasons it does not pass the linkchecker.

Also the linkchecker timeout has been set to 20 seconds to avoid to be stuck too much time on a failing link.

Tutorials/getStartedWithGUI/setup.rst, after:

Setup your Environment
======================

Prerequisites
-------------

The :ref:`MICROEJ SDK <sdk_install>` must be installed.
Please check the :ref:`MICROEJ SDK requirements <system-requirements>`.

Download and Install
--------------------

#.  Download the installer package corresponding to your host computer OS: `Download MicroEJ SDK <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/>`__.

#.  Unzip the downloaded installer package if needed and execute the installer.


Start the IDE for the First Time
--------------------------------

#. Start MICROEJ SDK and select a workspace. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with Eclipse workspaces, select the default and press OK.
   
#. Select the MICROEJ repository. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with MICROEJ repositories, select the default and press OK.

Prepare Platform Sources
------------------------

#. Download and unzip the platform sources for STM32F7508-DK by clicking on :guilabel:`Download` > :guilabel:`Download ZIP`: 
   `Go to the Github repository <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Platform-STMicroelectronics-STM32F7508-DK/tree/1.3.2>`__.
#. Follow the README to import the platform sources, activate your license and build your platform, in the Platform Setup section.
#. Once all the steps of the platform setup are done, a new Java project can be created.

Create a New Project
--------------------

Go to :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`New` > :guilabel:`Standalone Application Project`:

.. image:: images/createStandaloneProject.png
   :align: center

The project structure should look like this:

.. image:: images/structure.png
   :align: center

Featured Project: Widget Demo
-----------------------------

You can have a look at the widget demo project, which contains multiple samples of widgets and usage.

- `Widget Demo GitHub Repository <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Demo-Widget>`__

.. image:: images/widgetdemo.png
   :align: center
