Tutorials/gettingstarted/MJ5minutes.rst, before:

Start your first MicroEJ GUI application in 15 Minutes
======================================================

Prerequisites
-------------

- Supported Operating System: MICROEJ SDK runs on the following operating systems: Windows (7, 8, 8.1, 10), Linux, macOS.
- A Java™ Runtime Environment 8 is needed on your host computer for running MICROEJ SDK 21.03. [Download Java™ Runtime Environments]

Download and Install
--------------------

#.  Download the installer package corresponding to your host computer OS `MicroEJ SDK <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.03/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-21.03.exe>`__

#.  Unzip the downloaded installer package if needed and execute the installer.


Start the IDE for the first time
--------------------------------

#. Start MicroEJ SDK and select a workspace. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with Eclipse workspaces, select the default and press OK.
   
#. Select the MicroEJ repository to import MicroEJ architectures
   from. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with MicroEJ repositories, select the default and press OK.

Prepare platform sources
------------------------

#. Download and unzip the platform sources for 

   - `GCC <https://repository.microej.com/packages/referenceimplementations/M5QNX/1.2.0/STM32F7508-M5QNX-fullPackaging-eval-1.2.0.zip>`__
   - `IAR <https://repository.microej.com/packages/referenceimplementations/KUVW3/1.2.0/STM32F7508-KUVW3-fullPackaging-eval-1.2.0.zip>`__

#. Select ``File > Import > MicroEJ > Architectures`` click on ``Next>`` and
   choose the directory ``platformArchitecture`` inside the unzipped
   folder read the license of the targets, and then click **Finish**.

   |image0|

#. Select :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` > :guilabel:`Architectures` > :guilabel:`click on
   Import...`> :guilabel:`find the previously extracted folder and select the
   MicroEJ Architecture directory`. 

   .. note::

      There will be an X on architecture, this issue will be addressed soon 
   
   |image1|

#. Select the :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`Import` > :guilabel:`General` > :guilabel:`Existing Projects into`
   Workspace click on :guilabel:`Select archive file` and browse for the previously
   extracted folder to locate the **MicroEJ Platform Reference
   Implementation file(e.g.STM32F7508-KUVW3-platformSource.zip)** then
   import all available Eclipse projects,and then click **Finish**

   |image2|

Create your license
-------------------

#. Go to `license.microej.com <https://license.microej.com>`__ and create a new account.
#. After receiving the confirmation e-mail, login to your account and
   click on Activate a License.
#. Set Product P/N: to 9PEVNLDBU6IJ.
#. To get your UID from the MicroEJ SDK, select :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` > :guilabel:`Architectures` > guilabel:`click on one of the available architectures and press Get UID`. 

.. raw:: html

   <div class="figure align-center">
           <video width="960" height="540" muted="on" controls="controls" >
                   <source src="https://developer.microej.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/sdk_sc_2-get-your-uid.mp4" type="video/mp4">
           </video>
   </div>

#. Wait for the e-mail confirmation and download the attached zip file
   that contains your activation key. 

   .. note::
   
      You should receive your activation key by email in less than 5 minutes. If not, please contact support@microej.com.

Activate your license
---------------------

#. Back in MicroEJ SDK, select the :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` menu
   and press Add... to select the downloaded activation key archive
   file.
#. Go to Architectures sub-menu and check that all architectures are now
   activated (green check). 

.. raw:: html

   <div class="figure align-center">
           <video width="960" height="540" muted="on" controls="controls" >
                   <source src="https://developer.microej.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/generate-you-activation-key.mp4" type="video/mp4">
           </video>
   </div>

Build Your Platform
-------------------

#. Inside the **stm32f7508_freertos-configuration** project, open the
   **.platform** File MicroEJ platform configuration file. From this
   MicroEJ platform configuration file, click on the link Build Platform
   
   |image5|

#. The message should say build successful

Create a New Project
--------------------

#. First, Go to ``File > New > Standalone Project``

   |image6|

#. The Project Structure should look like this 

   |image7|

Featured project Demo Widget
------------------------------

- instructions to download import and launch Demo Widget 

   |image8|

.. |image0| image:: images/architeture.PNG
.. |image1| image:: images/windowarch.PNG
.. |image2| image:: images/workspace.png
.. |image3| image:: images/video1.png
.. |image4| image:: images/activatevid.PNG
.. |image5| image:: images/buildplat.png
.. |image6| image:: images/createStandaloneProject.png
.. |image7| image:: images/structure.png
.. |image8| image:: images/widgetdemo.PNG

Commit message:

add guilabel tag
Co-authored-by: Thomas Pons <48557644+thomasponsmicroej@users.noreply.github.com>

Tutorials/gettingstarted/MJ5minutes.rst, after:

Start your first MicroEJ GUI application in 15 Minutes
======================================================

Prerequisites
-------------

- Supported Operating System: MICROEJ SDK runs on the following operating systems: Windows (7, 8, 8.1, 10), Linux, macOS.
- A Java™ Runtime Environment 8 is needed on your host computer for running MICROEJ SDK 21.03. [Download Java™ Runtime Environments]

Download and Install
--------------------

#.  Download the installer package corresponding to your host computer OS `MicroEJ SDK <https://repository.microej.com/packages/SDK/21.03/MicroEJ-SDK-Installer-Win64-21.03.exe>`__

#.  Unzip the downloaded installer package if needed and execute the installer.


Start the IDE for the first time
--------------------------------

#. Start MicroEJ SDK and select a workspace. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with Eclipse workspaces, select the default and press OK.
   
#. Select the MicroEJ repository to import MicroEJ architectures
   from. 

   .. note::

      If you are not familiar with MicroEJ repositories, select the default and press OK.

Prepare platform sources
------------------------

#. Download and unzip the platform sources for 

   - `GCC <https://repository.microej.com/packages/referenceimplementations/M5QNX/1.2.0/STM32F7508-M5QNX-fullPackaging-eval-1.2.0.zip>`__
   - `IAR <https://repository.microej.com/packages/referenceimplementations/KUVW3/1.2.0/STM32F7508-KUVW3-fullPackaging-eval-1.2.0.zip>`__

#. Go to :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`Import` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` > :guilabel:`Architectures`, click on :guilabel:`Import.. ` and

   choose the directory ``platformArchitecture`` inside the unzipped
   folder read the license of the targets, and then click **Finish**.

   |image0|

#. Select :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` > :guilabel:`Architectures` > :guilabel:`click on
   Import...`> :guilabel:`find the previously extracted folder and select the
   MicroEJ Architecture directory`. 

   .. note::

      There will be an X on architecture, this issue will be addressed soon 
   
   |image1|

#. Select the :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`Import` > :guilabel:`General` > :guilabel:`Existing Projects into`
   Workspace click on :guilabel:`Select archive file` and browse for the previously
   extracted folder to locate the **MicroEJ Platform Reference
   Implementation file(e.g.STM32F7508-KUVW3-platformSource.zip)** then
   import all available Eclipse projects,and then click **Finish**

   |image2|

Create your license
-------------------

#. Go to `license.microej.com <https://license.microej.com>`__ and create a new account.
#. After receiving the confirmation e-mail, login to your account and
   click on Activate a License.
#. Set Product P/N: to 9PEVNLDBU6IJ.
#. To get your UID from the MicroEJ SDK, select :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` > :guilabel:`Architectures` > guilabel:`click on one of the available architectures and press Get UID`. 

.. raw:: html

   <div class="figure align-center">
           <video width="960" height="540" muted="on" controls="controls" >
                   <source src="https://developer.microej.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/sdk_sc_2-get-your-uid.mp4" type="video/mp4">
           </video>
   </div>

#. Wait for the e-mail confirmation and download the attached zip file
   that contains your activation key. 

   .. note::
   
      You should receive your activation key by email in less than 5 minutes. If not, please contact support@microej.com.

Activate your license
---------------------

#. Back in MicroEJ SDK, select the :guilabel:`Window` > :guilabel:`Preferences` > :guilabel:`MicroEJ` menu
   and press Add... to select the downloaded activation key archive
   file.
#. Go to Architectures sub-menu and check that all architectures are now
   activated (green check). 

.. raw:: html

   <div class="figure align-center">
           <video width="960" height="540" muted="on" controls="controls" >
                   <source src="https://developer.microej.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/generate-you-activation-key.mp4" type="video/mp4">
           </video>
   </div>

Build Your Platform
-------------------

#. Inside the **stm32f7508_freertos-configuration** project, open the
   **.platform** File MicroEJ platform configuration file. From this
   MicroEJ platform configuration file, click on the link Build Platform
   
   |image5|

#. The message should say build successful

Create a New Project
--------------------

#. First, Go to ``File > New > Standalone Project``

   |image6|

#. The Project Structure should look like this 

   |image7|

Featured project Demo Widget
------------------------------

- instructions to download import and launch Demo Widget 

   |image8|

.. |image0| image:: images/architeture.PNG
.. |image1| image:: images/windowarch.PNG
.. |image2| image:: images/workspace.png
.. |image3| image:: images/video1.png
.. |image4| image:: images/activatevid.PNG
.. |image5| image:: images/buildplat.png
.. |image6| image:: images/createStandaloneProject.png
.. |image7| image:: images/structure.png
.. |image8| image:: images/widgetdemo.PNG
