overview/gettingStarted.rst, before:

Getting Started
===============

MicroEJ Getting Started is available on
`<https://developer.microej.com/get-started/>`_.

Starting from scratch, the steps to go through the whole process are:

#. Setup a board and test a Firmware:

   -  Select between one of the available boards;

   -  Download and install a Firmware on the target hardware;

   -  Deploy and run a demo Application on the board.

#. Setup and learn to use development tools:

   -  Download and install the SDK;

   -  Download and install the corresponding Virtual Device for the
      target hardware;

   -  Download, build and run your first Application on Simulator;

   -  Build and run your first Application on target hardware.

The following figure gives an overview of the MicroEJ software
components required for both host computer and target hardware:

.. figure:: images/2_download.png
   :alt: SDK Development Imported Elements
   :align: center
   :scale: 50%

   SDK Development Imported Elements

..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

update getting started and schematic with SDK instead of Studio

overview/gettingStarted.rst, after:

Getting Started
===============

MicroEJ Getting Started is available on
`<https://developer.microej.com/get-started/>`_.

Starting from scratch, the steps to go through the whole process are:

#. Setup a board and test a demo Application:

   -  Select between one of the available boards;

   -  Download and run a demo Application with a Virtual Device;

   -  Download and install a Firmware on the target hardware;

   -  Deploy and run a demo Application on the board.

#. Setup and learn to use development tools:

   -  Download and install the SDK;

   -  Download and install the corresponding Platform for the
      target hardware;

   -  Download, build and run your first Application on Simulator;

   -  Build and run your first Application on target hardware.

The following figure gives an overview of the software
components required for both host computer and target hardware:

.. figure:: images/2_download.png
   :alt: Getting Started General Components
   :align: center
   :scale: 60%

   Getting Started General Components

..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
