overview/sdk.rst, before:

MicroEJ SDK
===========

Introduction
------------

MicroEJ SDK provides tools based on Eclipse to develop software
applications for MicroEJ-ready devices. MicroEJ SDK allows application
developers to write MicroEJ Applications and run them on a virtual
(simulated) or real device.

This document is a step-by-step introduction to application development
with MicroEJ SDK. The purpose of MicroEJ SDK is to develop for targeted
MCU/MPU computers (IoT, wearable, etc.) and it is therefore a
cross-development tool.

Unlike standard low-level cross-development tools, MicroEJ SDK offers
unique services like hardware simulation and local deployment to the
target hardware.

Application development is based on the following elements:

-  MicroEJ SDK, the integrated development environment for writing
   applications. It is based on Eclipse and is relies on the integrated
   Java compiler (JDT). It also provides a dependency manager for
   managing MicroEJ Libraries (see :ref:`mmm`).
   The current distribution of MicroEJ SDK (``20.10``) is built on top of 
   `Eclipse 2020-06 <https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/release/2020-06/r/eclipse-ide-java-developers>`_.

-  MicroEJ Platform, a software package including the resources and
   tools required for building and testing an application for a specific
   MicroEJ-ready device. MicroEJ Platforms are imported into MicroEJ SDK
   within a local folder called MicroEJ Platforms repository. Once a
   MicroEJ Platform is imported, an application can be launched and
   tested on Simulator. It also provides a mean to locally deploy the
   application on a MicroEJ-ready device.

-  MicroEJ-ready device, an hardware device that will be programmed with
   a MicroEJ Firmware. A MicroEJ Firmware is a binary instance of
   MicroEJ runtime for a target hardware board.

Starting from scratch, the steps to go through the whole process are
detailed in the following sections of this chapter :

-  :ref:`Download and install a MicroEJ Platform <platform_import>`

-  :ref:`Build and run your first Application on Simulator <simulator_execution>`

-  :ref:`Build and run your first Application on Device <device_build>`

.. include:: sdkReleaseNotes.rst

.. include:: sdkChangeLog.rst

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

pull-up installation notes and migration notes

overview/sdk.rst, after:

MicroEJ SDK
===========

Introduction
------------

MicroEJ SDK provides tools based on Eclipse to develop software
applications for MicroEJ-ready devices. MicroEJ SDK allows application
developers to write MicroEJ Applications and run them on a virtual
(simulated) or real device.

This document is a step-by-step introduction to application development
with MicroEJ SDK. The purpose of MicroEJ SDK is to develop for targeted
MCU/MPU computers (IoT, wearable, etc.) and it is therefore a
cross-development tool.

Unlike standard low-level cross-development tools, MicroEJ SDK offers
unique services like hardware simulation and local deployment to the
target hardware.

Application development is based on the following elements:

-  MicroEJ SDK, the integrated development environment for writing
   applications. It is based on Eclipse and is relies on the integrated
   Java compiler (JDT). It also provides a dependency manager for
   managing MicroEJ Libraries (see :ref:`mmm`).
   The current distribution of MicroEJ SDK (``20.10``) is built on top of 
   `Eclipse 2020-06 <https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/release/2020-06/r/eclipse-ide-java-developers>`_.

-  MicroEJ Platform, a software package including the resources and
   tools required for building and testing an application for a specific
   MicroEJ-ready device. MicroEJ Platforms are imported into MicroEJ SDK
   within a local folder called MicroEJ Platforms repository. Once a
   MicroEJ Platform is imported, an application can be launched and
   tested on Simulator. It also provides a mean to locally deploy the
   application on a MicroEJ-ready device.

-  MicroEJ-ready device, an hardware device that will be programmed with
   a MicroEJ Firmware. A MicroEJ Firmware is a binary instance of
   MicroEJ runtime for a target hardware board.

Starting from scratch, the steps to go through the whole process are
detailed in the following sections of this chapter :

-  :ref:`Download and install a MicroEJ Platform <platform_import>`

-  :ref:`Build and run your first Application on Simulator <simulator_execution>`

-  :ref:`Build and run your first Application on Device <device_build>`

.. include:: sdkReleaseNotes.rst

.. include:: sdkChangeLog.rst

.. include:: sdkInstallationNotes.rst

.. include:: sdkMigrationNotes.rst


..
   | Copyright 2008-2021, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
