PlatformDeveloperGuide/coreEngine.rst, before:

===================
MicroEJ Core Engine
===================


The MicroEJ Core Engine (also called the platform engine) and its
components represent the core of the platform. It is used to compile and
execute at runtime the MicroEJ Application code.


Functional Description
======================

:ref:`The following diagram <fig_mjvm_flow2>` shows the overall process. The first two
steps are performed within the MicroEJ Workbench. The remaining steps
are performed within the C IDE.

.. _fig_mjvm_flow2:
.. figure:: images/mjvm_flow2.*
   :alt: MicroEJ Core Engine Flow
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Core Engine Flow

1. Step 1 consists in writing a MicroEJ Application against a set of
   Foundation Libraries available in the platform.

2. Step 2 consists in compiling the MicroEJ Application code and the
   required libraries in an ELF library, using the SOAR.

3. Step 3 consists in linking the previous ELF file with the MicroEJ
   Core Engine library and a third-party BSP (OS, drivers, etc.). This
   step may require a third-party linker provided by a C toolchain.


Architecture
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine and its components have been compiled for one
specific CPU architecture and for use with a specific C compiler.

The architecture of the platform engine is called green thread
architecture, it runs in a single RTOS task. Its behavior consists in
scheduling MicroEJ threads. The scheduler implements a priority
preemptive scheduling policy with round robin for the MicroEJ threads
with the same priority. In the following explanations the term "RTOS
task" refers to the tasks scheduled by the underlying OS; and the term
"MicroEJ thread" refers to the Java threads scheduled by the MicroEJ Core Engine.

.. figure:: images/mjvm_gt.*
   :alt: A Green Threads Architecture Example
   :align: center

   A Green Threads Architecture Example

The activity of the platform is defined by the MicroEJ Application. When
the MicroEJ Application is blocked (when all MicroEJ threads are
sleeping), the platform sleeps entirely: The RTOS task that runs the
platform sleeps.

The platform is responsible for providing the time to the MicroEJ world:
the precision is 1 millisecond.


Capabilities
============

MicroEJ Core Engine defines 3 exclusive capabilities:

-  Mono-sandbox : capability to produce a monolithic firmware
   (default one).

-  Multi-Sandbox : capability to produce a extensible firmware on
   which new applications can be dynamically installed. See section
   :ref:`multisandbox`.

-  Tiny application : capability to produce a compacted firmware
   (optimized for size). See section :ref:`core-tiny`.

All MicroEJ Core Engine capabilities may not be available on all
architectures. Refer to section :ref:`appendix_matrixcapabilities`
for more details.


.. _mjvm_impl:

Implementation
==============

The platform implements the :ref:`[SNI] specification <esr-specifications>`. It is created and
initialized with the C function ``SNI_createVM``. Then it is started and
executed in the current RTOS task by calling ``SNI_startVM``. The
function ``SNI_startVM`` returns when the MicroEJ Application exits. The
function ``SNI_destroyVM`` handles the platform termination.

The file ``LLMJVM_impl.h`` that comes with the platform defines the API
to be implemented. The file ``LLMJVM.h`` that comes with the platform
defines platform-specific exit code constants. (See
:ref:`LLMJVM-API-SECTION`.)

Initialization
--------------

The Low Level MicroEJ Core Engine API deals with two objects: the
structure that represents the platform, and the RTOS task that runs the
platform. Two callbacks allow engineers to interact with the
initialization of both objects:

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_initialize``: Called once the structure representing
   the platform is initialized.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_vmTaskStarted``: Called when the platform starts its
   execution. This function is called within the RTOS task of the
   platform.

Scheduling
----------

To support the green thread round-robin policy, the platform assumes
there is an RTOS timer or some other mechanism that counts (down) and
fires a call-back when it reaches a specified value. The platform
initializes the timer using the ``LLMJVM_IMPL_scheduleRequest`` function
with one argument: the absolute time at which the timer should fire.
When the timer fires, it must call the ``LLMJVM_schedule`` function,
which tells the platform to execute a green thread context switch (which
gives another MicroEJ thread a chance to run).

Idle Mode
---------

When the platform has no activity to execute, it calls the
``LLMJVM_IMPL_idleVM`` function, which is assumed to put the RTOS task
of the platform into a sleep state. ``LLMJVM_IMPL_wakeupVM`` is called
to wake up the platform task. When the platform task really starts to
execute again, it calls the ``LLMJVM_IMPL_ackWakeup`` function to
acknowledge the restart of its activity.

Time
----

The platform defines two times:

-  the application time: The difference, measured in milliseconds,
   between the current time and midnight, January 1, 1970, UTC.

-  the system time: The time since the start of the device. This time is
   independent of any user considerations, and cannot be set.

The platform relies on the following C functions to provide those times
to the MicroEJ world:

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_getCurrentTime``: Depending on the parameter (``true``
   / ``false``) must return the application time or the system time.
   This function is called by the MicroEJ method
   ``System.currentTimeMillis()``. It is also used by the platform
   scheduler, and should be implemented efficiently.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_getTimeNanos``: must return the system time in
   nanoseconds.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_setApplicationTime``: must set the difference between
   the current time and midnight, January 1, 1970, UTC.

Example
-------

The following example shows how to create and launch the MicroEJ Core
Engine from the C world. This function (``mjvm_main``) should be called
from a dedicated RTOS task.

.. code:: c

   #include <stdio.h>
   #include "mjvm_main.h"
   #include "LLMJVM.h"
   #include "sni.h"

   void mjvm_main(void)
   {
       void* vm;
       int32_t err;
       int32_t exitcode;
       
       // create VM
       vm = SNI_createVM();

       if(vm == NULL)
       {
           printf("VM initialization error.\n");
       }
       else
       {
           printf("VM START\n");
           err = SNI_startVM(vm, 0, NULL);

           if(err < 0)
           {
               // Error occurred
               if(err == LLMJVM_E_EVAL_LIMIT)
               {
                   printf("Evaluation limits reached.\n");
               }
               else
               {
                   printf("VM execution error (err = %d).\n", err);
               }
           }
           else
           {
               // VM execution ends normally
               exitcode = SNI_getExitCode(vm);
               printf("VM END (exit code = %d)\n", exitcode);
           }

           // delete VM
           SNI_destroyVM(vm);
       }
   }

Debugging
---------

The internal MicroEJ Core Engine function called ``LLMJVM_dump`` allows
you to dump the state of all MicroEJ threads: name, priority, stack
trace, etc. This function can be called at any time and from an
interrupt routine (for instance from a button interrupt).

This is an example of a dump:

.. code:: txt

   ============ VM Dump ============
   2 java threads
   ---------------------------------
   Java Thread[3]
   name="SYSINpmp" prio=5 state=WAITING

   java/lang/Thread:
       at com/is2t/microbsp/microui/natives/NSystemInputPump.@134261800
    [0x0800AC32]
       at com/is2t/microbsp/microui/io/SystemInputPump.@134265968
    [0x0800BC80]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134261696
    [0x0800ABCC]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134265872
    [0x0800BC24]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273964
    [0x0800DBC4]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273784
    [0x0800DB04]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273892
    [0x0800DB6F]
   ---------------------------------
   Java Thread[2]
   name="DISPLpmp" prio=5 state=WAITING

   java/lang/Thread:
       at java/lang/Object.@134256392
    [0x08009719]
       at ej/microui/FIFOPump.@134259824
    [0x0800A48E]
       at ej/microui/io/DisplayPump.134263016
    [0x0800B0F8]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134261696
    [0x0800ABCC]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134265872
    [0x0800BC24]
       at ej/microui/io/DisplayPump.@134262868
    [0x0800B064]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273964
    [0x0800DBC4]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273784
    [0x0800DB04]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273892
    [0x0800DB6F]
   =================================

See :ref:`stack_trace_reader` for additional info related to working
with VM dumps.


Generic Output
==============

The ``System.err`` stream is connected to the ``System.out`` print
stream. See below for how to configure the destination of these streams.


Link
====

Several sections are defined by the MicroEJ Core Engine. Each section
must be linked by the third-party linker.

.. table:: Linker Sections

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | Section name                | Aim                         | Location    | Alignment  |
   |                             |                             |             | (in bytes) |
   +=============================+=============================+=============+============+
   | ``.bss.features.installed`` | Resident applications       | RW          | 4          |
   |                             | statics                     |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.bss.soar``               | Application static          | RW          | 8          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.bss.vm.stacks.java``     | Application threads stack   | RW          | 8          |
   |                             | blocks                      |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``ICETEA_HEAP``             | MicroEJ Core Engine         | Internal RW | 8          |
   |                             | internal heap               |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``_java_heap``              | Application heap            | RW          | 4          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``_java_immortals``         | Application immortal heap   | RW          | 4          |
   |                             |                             |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.rodata.resources``       | Application resources       | RO          | 16         |
   |                             |                             |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.rodata.soar.features``   | Resident applications code  | RO          | 4          |
   |                             | and resources               |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.shieldedplug``           | Shielded Plug data          | RO          | 4          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.text.soar``              | Application and library     | RO          | 16         |
   |                             | code                        |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+


Dependencies
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine requires an implementation of its low level APIs
in order to run. Refer to the chapter :ref:`mjvm_impl` for more
information.


Installation
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine and its components are mandatory. In the
platform configuration file, check :guilabel:`Multi Applications` to install the
MicroEJ Core Engine in "Multi-Sandbox" mode. Otherwise, the "Single
application" mode is installed.


Use
===

A MicroEJ classpath variable named ``EDC-1.2`` is available, according
to the selected foundation core library. This MicroEJ classpath variable
is always required in the build path of a MicroEJ project; and all
others libraries depend on it. This library provides a set of options.
Refer to the chapter :ref:`application_options` which lists all
available options.

Another classpath variable named ``BON-1.2`` is available. This variable
must be added to the build path of the MicroEJ Application project in
order to access the :ref:`[BON] library <esr-specifications>`.


..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

M0078DDG-291 replaced every mention of classpath variables in modules that had equivalent MMM dependencies

PlatformDeveloperGuide/coreEngine.rst, after:

===================
MicroEJ Core Engine
===================


The MicroEJ Core Engine (also called the platform engine) and its
components represent the core of the platform. It is used to compile and
execute at runtime the MicroEJ Application code.


Functional Description
======================

:ref:`The following diagram <fig_mjvm_flow2>` shows the overall process. The first two
steps are performed within the MicroEJ Workbench. The remaining steps
are performed within the C IDE.

.. _fig_mjvm_flow2:
.. figure:: images/mjvm_flow2.*
   :alt: MicroEJ Core Engine Flow
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Core Engine Flow

1. Step 1 consists in writing a MicroEJ Application against a set of
   Foundation Libraries available in the platform.

2. Step 2 consists in compiling the MicroEJ Application code and the
   required libraries in an ELF library, using the SOAR.

3. Step 3 consists in linking the previous ELF file with the MicroEJ
   Core Engine library and a third-party BSP (OS, drivers, etc.). This
   step may require a third-party linker provided by a C toolchain.


Architecture
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine and its components have been compiled for one
specific CPU architecture and for use with a specific C compiler.

The architecture of the platform engine is called green thread
architecture, it runs in a single RTOS task. Its behavior consists in
scheduling MicroEJ threads. The scheduler implements a priority
preemptive scheduling policy with round robin for the MicroEJ threads
with the same priority. In the following explanations the term "RTOS
task" refers to the tasks scheduled by the underlying OS; and the term
"MicroEJ thread" refers to the Java threads scheduled by the MicroEJ Core Engine.

.. figure:: images/mjvm_gt.*
   :alt: A Green Threads Architecture Example
   :align: center

   A Green Threads Architecture Example

The activity of the platform is defined by the MicroEJ Application. When
the MicroEJ Application is blocked (when all MicroEJ threads are
sleeping), the platform sleeps entirely: The RTOS task that runs the
platform sleeps.

The platform is responsible for providing the time to the MicroEJ world:
the precision is 1 millisecond.


Capabilities
============

MicroEJ Core Engine defines 3 exclusive capabilities:

-  Mono-sandbox : capability to produce a monolithic firmware
   (default one).

-  Multi-Sandbox : capability to produce a extensible firmware on
   which new applications can be dynamically installed. See section
   :ref:`multisandbox`.

-  Tiny application : capability to produce a compacted firmware
   (optimized for size). See section :ref:`core-tiny`.

All MicroEJ Core Engine capabilities may not be available on all
architectures. Refer to section :ref:`appendix_matrixcapabilities`
for more details.


.. _mjvm_impl:

Implementation
==============

The platform implements the :ref:`[SNI] specification <esr-specifications>`. It is created and
initialized with the C function ``SNI_createVM``. Then it is started and
executed in the current RTOS task by calling ``SNI_startVM``. The
function ``SNI_startVM`` returns when the MicroEJ Application exits. The
function ``SNI_destroyVM`` handles the platform termination.

The file ``LLMJVM_impl.h`` that comes with the platform defines the API
to be implemented. The file ``LLMJVM.h`` that comes with the platform
defines platform-specific exit code constants. (See
:ref:`LLMJVM-API-SECTION`.)

Initialization
--------------

The Low Level MicroEJ Core Engine API deals with two objects: the
structure that represents the platform, and the RTOS task that runs the
platform. Two callbacks allow engineers to interact with the
initialization of both objects:

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_initialize``: Called once the structure representing
   the platform is initialized.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_vmTaskStarted``: Called when the platform starts its
   execution. This function is called within the RTOS task of the
   platform.

Scheduling
----------

To support the green thread round-robin policy, the platform assumes
there is an RTOS timer or some other mechanism that counts (down) and
fires a call-back when it reaches a specified value. The platform
initializes the timer using the ``LLMJVM_IMPL_scheduleRequest`` function
with one argument: the absolute time at which the timer should fire.
When the timer fires, it must call the ``LLMJVM_schedule`` function,
which tells the platform to execute a green thread context switch (which
gives another MicroEJ thread a chance to run).

Idle Mode
---------

When the platform has no activity to execute, it calls the
``LLMJVM_IMPL_idleVM`` function, which is assumed to put the RTOS task
of the platform into a sleep state. ``LLMJVM_IMPL_wakeupVM`` is called
to wake up the platform task. When the platform task really starts to
execute again, it calls the ``LLMJVM_IMPL_ackWakeup`` function to
acknowledge the restart of its activity.

Time
----

The platform defines two times:

-  the application time: The difference, measured in milliseconds,
   between the current time and midnight, January 1, 1970, UTC.

-  the system time: The time since the start of the device. This time is
   independent of any user considerations, and cannot be set.

The platform relies on the following C functions to provide those times
to the MicroEJ world:

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_getCurrentTime``: Depending on the parameter (``true``
   / ``false``) must return the application time or the system time.
   This function is called by the MicroEJ method
   ``System.currentTimeMillis()``. It is also used by the platform
   scheduler, and should be implemented efficiently.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_getTimeNanos``: must return the system time in
   nanoseconds.

-  ``LLMJVM_IMPL_setApplicationTime``: must set the difference between
   the current time and midnight, January 1, 1970, UTC.

Example
-------

The following example shows how to create and launch the MicroEJ Core
Engine from the C world. This function (``mjvm_main``) should be called
from a dedicated RTOS task.

.. code:: c

   #include <stdio.h>
   #include "mjvm_main.h"
   #include "LLMJVM.h"
   #include "sni.h"

   void mjvm_main(void)
   {
       void* vm;
       int32_t err;
       int32_t exitcode;
       
       // create VM
       vm = SNI_createVM();

       if(vm == NULL)
       {
           printf("VM initialization error.\n");
       }
       else
       {
           printf("VM START\n");
           err = SNI_startVM(vm, 0, NULL);

           if(err < 0)
           {
               // Error occurred
               if(err == LLMJVM_E_EVAL_LIMIT)
               {
                   printf("Evaluation limits reached.\n");
               }
               else
               {
                   printf("VM execution error (err = %d).\n", err);
               }
           }
           else
           {
               // VM execution ends normally
               exitcode = SNI_getExitCode(vm);
               printf("VM END (exit code = %d)\n", exitcode);
           }

           // delete VM
           SNI_destroyVM(vm);
       }
   }

Debugging
---------

The internal MicroEJ Core Engine function called ``LLMJVM_dump`` allows
you to dump the state of all MicroEJ threads: name, priority, stack
trace, etc. This function can be called at any time and from an
interrupt routine (for instance from a button interrupt).

This is an example of a dump:

.. code:: txt

   ============ VM Dump ============
   2 java threads
   ---------------------------------
   Java Thread[3]
   name="SYSINpmp" prio=5 state=WAITING

   java/lang/Thread:
       at com/is2t/microbsp/microui/natives/NSystemInputPump.@134261800
    [0x0800AC32]
       at com/is2t/microbsp/microui/io/SystemInputPump.@134265968
    [0x0800BC80]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134261696
    [0x0800ABCC]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134265872
    [0x0800BC24]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273964
    [0x0800DBC4]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273784
    [0x0800DB04]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273892
    [0x0800DB6F]
   ---------------------------------
   Java Thread[2]
   name="DISPLpmp" prio=5 state=WAITING

   java/lang/Thread:
       at java/lang/Object.@134256392
    [0x08009719]
       at ej/microui/FIFOPump.@134259824
    [0x0800A48E]
       at ej/microui/io/DisplayPump.134263016
    [0x0800B0F8]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134261696
    [0x0800ABCC]
       at ej/microui/Pump.@134265872
    [0x0800BC24]
       at ej/microui/io/DisplayPump.@134262868
    [0x0800B064]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273964
    [0x0800DBC4]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273784
    [0x0800DB04]
       at java/lang/Thread.@134273892
    [0x0800DB6F]
   =================================

See :ref:`stack_trace_reader` for additional info related to working
with VM dumps.


Generic Output
==============

The ``System.err`` stream is connected to the ``System.out`` print
stream. See below for how to configure the destination of these streams.


Link
====

Several sections are defined by the MicroEJ Core Engine. Each section
must be linked by the third-party linker.

.. table:: Linker Sections

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | Section name                | Aim                         | Location    | Alignment  |
   |                             |                             |             | (in bytes) |
   +=============================+=============================+=============+============+
   | ``.bss.features.installed`` | Resident applications       | RW          | 4          |
   |                             | statics                     |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.bss.soar``               | Application static          | RW          | 8          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.bss.vm.stacks.java``     | Application threads stack   | RW          | 8          |
   |                             | blocks                      |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``ICETEA_HEAP``             | MicroEJ Core Engine         | Internal RW | 8          |
   |                             | internal heap               |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``_java_heap``              | Application heap            | RW          | 4          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``_java_immortals``         | Application immortal heap   | RW          | 4          |
   |                             |                             |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.rodata.resources``       | Application resources       | RO          | 16         |
   |                             |                             |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.rodata.soar.features``   | Resident applications code  | RO          | 4          |
   |                             | and resources               |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.shieldedplug``           | Shielded Plug data          | RO          | 4          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+
   | ``.text.soar``              | Application and library     | RO          | 16         |
   |                             | code                        |             |            |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------------+------------+


Dependencies
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine requires an implementation of its low level APIs
in order to run. Refer to the chapter :ref:`mjvm_impl` for more
information.


Installation
============

The MicroEJ Core Engine and its components are mandatory. In the
platform configuration file, check :guilabel:`Multi Applications` to install the
MicroEJ Core Engine in "Multi-Sandbox" mode. Otherwise, the "Single
application" mode is installed.


Use
===

The `EDC API Module <https://repository.microej.com/artifacts/ej/api/edc/>`_ must 
be added to the :ref:`module.ivy <mmm_module_description>` of the MicroEJ Application 
Project. This MicroEJ module is always required in the build path of a MicroEJ project; 
and all others libraries depend on it. This library provides a set of options.
Refer to the chapter :ref:`application_options` which lists all available options.

::

   <dependency org="ej.api" name="edc" rev="1.3.0"/>

The `BON API Module <https://repository.microej.com/artifacts/ej/api/bon/>`_
must also be added to the :ref:`module.ivy <mmm_module_description>` of the MicroEJ 
Application project in order to access the :ref:`[BON] library <esr-specifications>`.

::

   <dependency org="ej.api" name="bon" rev="1.4.0"/>

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
