PlatformDeveloperGuide/externalResourceLoader.rst, before:

.. _section_externalresourceloader:

=========================
External Resources Loader
=========================


Principle
=========

A *resource* is, for a MicroEJ Application, the contents of a file. This
file is known by its path (its relative path from the MicroEJ
Application classpath) and its name. The file may be stored in RAM,
flash, or external flash; and it is the responsibility of the MicroEJ
Core Engine and/or the BSP to retrieve and load it.

MicroEJ Platform makes the distinction between two kinds of resources:

-  Internal resource: The resource is taken into consideration during
   the MicroEJ Application build. The SOAR step loads the resource and
   copies it into the same C library as the MicroEJ Application. Like
   the MicroEJ Application, the resource is linked into the CPU address
   space range (internal device memories, external parallel memories,
   etc.).

   The available list of internal resources to embed must be specified
   in the MicroEJ Application launcher (MicroEJ launch). Under the "Resources"
   tab, select all internal resources to embed in the final
   binary file.

-  External resource: The resource is not taken into consideration by
   MicroEJ. It is the responsibility of the BSP project to manage this
   kind of resource. The resource is often programmed outside the CPU
   address space range (storage media like SD card, serial NOR flash,
   EEPROM, etc.).

   The BSP must implement some specific Low Level API (LLAPI) C
   functions: ``LLEXT_RES_impl.h``. These functions allow the MicroEJ
   Application to load some external resources.


Functional Description
======================

The External Resources Loader is an optional module. When not installed,
only internal resources are available for the MicroEJ Application. When
the External Resources Loader is installed, the MicroEJ Core Engine
tries first to retrieve the expected resource from its available list of
internal resources, before asking the BSP to load it (using
``LLEXT_RES_impl.h`` functions).


Implementations
===============

External Resources Loader module provides some Low Level API (LLEXT_RES)
to let the BSP manage the external resources.

Open a Resource
---------------

The LLAPI to implement in the BSP are listed in the header file
``LLEXT_RES_impl.h``. First, the framework tries to open an external
resource using the ``open`` function. This function receives the
resources path as a parameter. This path is the absolute path of the
resource from the MicroEJ Application classpath (the MicroEJ Application
source base directory). For example, when the resource is located here:
``com.mycompany.myapplication.resource.MyResource.txt``, the given path
is: ``com/mycompany/myapplication/resource/MyResource.txt``.

Resource Identifier
-------------------

This ``open`` function has to return a unique ID (positive value) for
the external resource, or returns an error code (negative value). This
ID will be used by the framework to manipulate the resource (read, seek,
close, etc.).

Several resources can be opened at the same time. The BSP does not have
to return the same identifier for two resources living at the same time.
However, it can return this ID for a new resource as soon as the old
resource is closed.

Resource Offset
---------------

The BSP must hold an offset for each opened resource. This offset must
be updated after each call to ``read`` and ``seek``.

Resource Inside the CPU Address Space Range
-------------------------------------------

An external resource can be programmed inside the CPU address space
range. This memory (or a part of memory) is not managed by the SOAR and
so the resources inside are considered as external.

Most of time the content of an external resource must be copied in a
memory inside the CPU address space range in order to be accessible by
the MicroEJ algorithms (draw an image etc.). However, when the resource
is already inside the CPU address space range, this copy is useless. The
function ``LLEXT_RES_getBaseAddress`` must return a valid CPU memory
address in order to avoid this copy. The MicroEJ algorithms are able to
target the external resource bytes without using the other ``LLEXT_RES``
APIs such as ``read``, ``mark`` etc.


External Resources Folder
=========================

The External Resource Loader module provides an option (MicroEJ launcher
option) to specify a folder for the external resources. This folder has
two roles:

-  It is the output folder used by some extra generators during the
   MicroEJ Application build. All output files generated by these tools
   will be copied into this folder. This makes it easier to retrieve the
   exhaustive list of resources to program on the board.

-  This folder is taken into consideration by the Simulator in order to
   simulate the availability of these resources. When the resources are
   located in another computer folder, the Simulator is not able to load
   them.

If not specified, this folder is created (if it does not already exist)
in the MicroEJ project specified in the MicroEJ launcher. Its name is
``externalResources``.


Dependencies
============

-  ``LLEXT_RES_impl.h`` implementation (see
   :ref:`LLEXT_RES-API-SECTION`).


Installation
============

The External Resources Loader is an additional module. In the platform
configuration file, check :guilabel:`External Resources Loader` to install this
module.


Use
===

The External Resources Loader is automatically used when the MicroEJ
Application tries to open an external resource.


..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

Mention `.list` files to specify internal resources

PlatformDeveloperGuide/externalResourceLoader.rst, after:

.. _section_externalresourceloader:

=========================
External Resources Loader
=========================


Principle
=========

A *resource* is, for a MicroEJ Application, the contents of a file. This
file is known by its path (its relative path from the MicroEJ
Application classpath) and its name. The file may be stored in RAM,
flash, or external flash; and it is the responsibility of the MicroEJ
Core Engine and/or the BSP to retrieve and load it.

MicroEJ Platform makes the distinction between two kinds of resources:

-  Internal resource: The resource is taken into consideration during
   the MicroEJ Application build. The SOAR step loads the resource and
   copies it into the same C library as the MicroEJ Application. Like
   the MicroEJ Application, the resource is linked into the CPU address
   space range (internal device memories, external parallel memories,
   etc.).

   The available list of internal resources to embed must be specified for the build of the MicroEJ Application.
   All resources defined in `.list` files of the application are embedded as internal resources in the final binary file.
   Alternatively, internal resources can be specified in the MicroEJ Application launcher (MicroEJ launch):
   Under the "Resources" tab, select all internal resources to embed in the final binary file.

-  External resource: The resource is not taken into consideration by
   MicroEJ. It is the responsibility of the BSP project to manage this
   kind of resource. The resource is often programmed outside the CPU
   address space range (storage media like SD card, serial NOR flash,
   EEPROM, etc.).

   The BSP must implement some specific Low Level API (LLAPI) C
   functions: ``LLEXT_RES_impl.h``. These functions allow the MicroEJ
   Application to load some external resources.


Functional Description
======================

The External Resources Loader is an optional module. When not installed,
only internal resources are available for the MicroEJ Application. When
the External Resources Loader is installed, the MicroEJ Core Engine
tries first to retrieve the expected resource from its available list of
internal resources, before asking the BSP to load it (using
``LLEXT_RES_impl.h`` functions).


Implementations
===============

External Resources Loader module provides some Low Level API (LLEXT_RES)
to let the BSP manage the external resources.

Open a Resource
---------------

The LLAPI to implement in the BSP are listed in the header file
``LLEXT_RES_impl.h``. First, the framework tries to open an external
resource using the ``open`` function. This function receives the
resources path as a parameter. This path is the absolute path of the
resource from the MicroEJ Application classpath (the MicroEJ Application
source base directory). For example, when the resource is located here:
``com.mycompany.myapplication.resource.MyResource.txt``, the given path
is: ``com/mycompany/myapplication/resource/MyResource.txt``.

Resource Identifier
-------------------

This ``open`` function has to return a unique ID (positive value) for
the external resource, or returns an error code (negative value). This
ID will be used by the framework to manipulate the resource (read, seek,
close, etc.).

Several resources can be opened at the same time. The BSP does not have
to return the same identifier for two resources living at the same time.
However, it can return this ID for a new resource as soon as the old
resource is closed.

Resource Offset
---------------

The BSP must hold an offset for each opened resource. This offset must
be updated after each call to ``read`` and ``seek``.

Resource Inside the CPU Address Space Range
-------------------------------------------

An external resource can be programmed inside the CPU address space
range. This memory (or a part of memory) is not managed by the SOAR and
so the resources inside are considered as external.

Most of time the content of an external resource must be copied in a
memory inside the CPU address space range in order to be accessible by
the MicroEJ algorithms (draw an image etc.). However, when the resource
is already inside the CPU address space range, this copy is useless. The
function ``LLEXT_RES_getBaseAddress`` must return a valid CPU memory
address in order to avoid this copy. The MicroEJ algorithms are able to
target the external resource bytes without using the other ``LLEXT_RES``
APIs such as ``read``, ``mark`` etc.


External Resources Folder
=========================

The External Resource Loader module provides an option (MicroEJ launcher
option) to specify a folder for the external resources. This folder has
two roles:

-  It is the output folder used by some extra generators during the
   MicroEJ Application build. All output files generated by these tools
   will be copied into this folder. This makes it easier to retrieve the
   exhaustive list of resources to program on the board.

-  This folder is taken into consideration by the Simulator in order to
   simulate the availability of these resources. When the resources are
   located in another computer folder, the Simulator is not able to load
   them.

If not specified, this folder is created (if it does not already exist)
in the MicroEJ project specified in the MicroEJ launcher. Its name is
``externalResources``.


Dependencies
============

-  ``LLEXT_RES_impl.h`` implementation (see
   :ref:`LLEXT_RES-API-SECTION`).


Installation
============

The External Resources Loader is an additional module. In the platform
configuration file, check :guilabel:`External Resources Loader` to install this
module.


Use
===

The External Resources Loader is automatically used when the MicroEJ
Application tries to open an external resource.


..
   | Copyright 2008-2022, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
