PlatformDeveloperGuide/platformOverview.rst, before:

.. _build_process_overview:

Process Overview
================

This section summarizes the steps required to build a MicroEJ Platform
and obtain a binary file to deploy on a board.

:ref:`The following figure <fig_overall-process>` shows the overall process. The first
three steps are performed within the MicroEJ Platform builder. The
remaining steps are performed within the C IDE.

.. _fig_overall-process:
.. figure:: images/process-overview5.*
   :alt: Overall Process
   :scale: 80%
   :align: center

   Overall Process

1. Step 1 consists in creating a new MicroEJ Platform configuration
   project. This project describes the MicroEJ Platform (MicroEJ
   architecture, metadata, etc.).

2. Step 2 allows you to select which modules available in MicroEJ
   Architecture will be installed in the MicroEJ Platform.

3. Step 3 builds the MicroEJ Platform according to the choices made in
   steps 1 and 2.

4. Step 4 compiles a MicroEJ Application against the MicroEJ Platform in
   order to obtain an application file to link in the BSP.

5. Step 5 consists in compiling the BSP and linking it with the MicroEJ
   Application that was built previously, in step 4.

6. Step 6 is the final step: Deploy the binary application onto a board.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

Improve platform overview
- Remove redundant "Step X".  The list is already numbered, no need to
  repeat the step number.

- Rephrase to fit with the new wording (without "Step X")

- Mention MicroEJ Firmware instead of "binary application" as per the
  glossary.

PlatformDeveloperGuide/platformOverview.rst, after:

.. _build_process_overview:

Process Overview
================

This section summarizes the steps required to build a MicroEJ Platform
and obtain a binary file to deploy on a board.

:ref:`The following figure <fig_overall-process>` shows the overall process. The first
three steps are performed within the MicroEJ Platform builder. The
remaining steps are performed within the C IDE.

.. _fig_overall-process:
.. figure:: images/process-overview5.*
   :alt: Overall Process
   :scale: 80%
   :align: center

   Overall Process

The steps are as follow:

1. Create a new MicroEJ Platform configuration project. This project
   describes the MicroEJ Platform to build (MicroEJ architecture,
   metadata, etc.).

2. Select which modules provided by the MicroEJ Architecture will be
   installed in the MicroEJ Platform.

3. Build the MicroEJ Platform according to the choices made in steps 1
   and 2.

4. Compile a MicroEJ Application against the MicroEJ Platform in order
   to obtain an application file to link in the BSP.

5. Compile the BSP and link it with the MicroEJ Application that was
   built previously in step 4 to produce a MicroEJ Firmware.

6. Final step: Deploy MicroEJ Firmware (i.e. the binary application)
   onto a board.

..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
