PlatformDeveloperGuide/uiMicroui.rst, before:

.. _section_microui:

=======
MicroUI
=======


Principle
=========

MicroUI library defines a low-level UI framework for embedded devices. This module allows the creation of basic Human-Machine-Interfaces (HMI), with output on a pixelated screen. For more information, please consult the :ref:`[MUI] Specification <esr-specifications>`.


.. _section_architecture:

Architecture
============

MicroUI library is the entry point to perform some drawings on a display and to interact with user input events. This library contains only a minimal set of basic APIs. High-level libraries can be used to have more expressive power. In addition with this restricted set of APIs, the MicroUI implementation has been designed so that the EDC and BON footprint is minimal. 

At MicroEJ application startup all MicroUI objects relative to the I/O devices are created and accessible. The following MicroUI methods allow you to access these internal objects:

-  ``Display.getDisplay()``: returns the instance of the display which drives the main LCD screen.

-  ``Leds.getNumberOfLeds()``: returns the numbers of available LEDs.

MicroUI is not a standalone library. It requires a configuration step and several extensions to drive I/O devices (display, inputs, LEDs).

First, MicroUI requires a configuration step in order to create these internal objects before the call to the ``main()`` method. The chapter :ref:`section_static_init` explains how to perform the configuration step.

.. note::

   This configuration step is the same for both embedded and simulation
   platforms.

The embedded platform requires some additional C libraries to drive the I/O devices. Each C library is dedicated to a specific kind of I/O device. A specific chapter is available to explain each kind of I/O device.

.. table:: MicroUI C libraries

   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | I/O devices                             | Extension Name  | Chapter                    |
   +=========================================+=================+============================+
   | Graphical / pixelated display (LCD      | Display         | :ref:`section_display`     |
   | screen)                                 |                 |                            |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | Inputs (buttons, joystick, touch,       | Input           | :ref:`section_input`       |
   | pointers etc.)                          |                 |                            |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | LEDs                                    | LEDs            | :ref:`section_leds`        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+

The simulation platform uses a mock which simulates all I/O devices.
Refer to the chapter :ref:`section_simulation`


Thread
=======

Principle
---------

The MicroUI implementation for MicroEJ uses one internal thread as described in :ref:`MicroUI specification <esr-specifications>`. This thread is created during the MicroUI initialization step, and is started by a call to ``MicroUI.start()``. 

Role
----

This thread is called ``UIPump``. It has two roles:

-  It manages all display events (``requestRender()``, ``requestShow()``, etc.)
-  It reads the I/O devices inputs and dispatches them into the event generators' listeners. See input section: :ref:`section_input`. 

Memory
------

The thread is always running. The user has to count it to determine the number of concurrent threads the MicroEJ Core Engine can run (see Memory options in :ref:`application_options`).

Exceptions
----------

The thread cannot be stopped with a Java exception: The exceptions are always checked by the framework.

When an exception occurs in a user method called by the internal thread (for instance ``render()``), the current ``UncaughtExceptionHandler`` receives the exception. When no exception handler is set, a default handler prints the stack trace.

Native Calls
============

The MicroUI implementation for MicroEJ uses native methods to perform some actions (read input devices events, perform drawings, turn on LEDs etc.). The library implementation has been designed to not use blocking native methods (wait input devices, wait end of drawing etc.) which can lock the full MicroJvm execution. 

The specification of the native methods is to perform the action as fast as possible. The action execution may be sequential or parallel because an action is able to use a third-party device (software or hardware). In this case, some callbacks are available to notify the end of this kind of parallel actions. 

However some actions have to wait the end of a previous parallel action. By consequence the caller thread is blocked until the previous action is done; in others words, until the previous parallel action has called its callback. In this case, only the current Java thread is locked (because it cannot continue its execution until the both actions are performed). All others Java threads can run, even a thread with a lower priority than current thread. If no thread has to be run, MicroJvm goes in sleep mode until the native callback is called.

Transparency
============

MicroUI provides several policies to use the transparency. These policies depend on several factors, including the kind of drawing and the LCD pixel rendering format. The main concept is that MicroUI does not allow you to draw something with a transparency level different from 255 (fully opaque). There are two exceptions: the images and the fonts.

Images
------

Drawing an image (a pre-generated image or an image decoded at runtime)
which contains some transparency levels does not depend on the LCD pixel
rendering format. During the image drawing, each pixel is converted into
32 bits by pixel format.

This pixel format contains 8 bits to store the transparency level
(alpha). This byte is used to merge the foreground pixel (image
transparent pixel) with the background pixel (LCD buffer opaque pixel).
The formula to obtain the pixel is:

.. math::

   {\alpha}Mult = {\alpha}FG * {\alpha}BG) / 255

.. math::

   {\alpha}Out = {\alpha}FG + {\alpha}BG - {\alpha}Mult

.. math::

   COut = (CFG * {\alpha}FG + CBG * {\alpha}BG - CBG * {\alpha}Mult) / {\alpha}Out 

where:

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *FG* is the alpha level of the foreground pixel (layer pixel)

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *BG* is the alpha level of the background pixel (working buffer
   pixel)

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *xx* is a color component of a pixel (Red, Green or Blue).

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *Out* is the alpha level of the final pixel

Fonts
-----

A font holds only a transparency level (alpha). This fixed alpha level
is defined during the pre-generation of a font (see
:ref:`section_fonts`).

-  ``1`` means 2 levels are managed: fully opaque and fully transparent.

-  ``2`` means 4 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent and
   2 intermediate levels.

-  ``4`` means 16 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent
   and 14 intermediate levels.

-  ``8`` means 256 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent
   and 254 intermediate levels.

.. _section_microui_installation:

Installation
============

The MicroUI library is an additional module. In the platform
configuration file, check :guilabel:`UI` > :guilabel:`MicroUI` to install the library.
When checked, the XML file :guilabel:`microui` > :guilabel:`microui.xml` is required
during platform creation in order to configure the module. This
configuration step is used to extend the MicroUI library. Refer to the
chapter :ref:`section_static_init` for more information about the
MicroUI Initialization step.


Use
===

The classpath variable named ``MICROUI-3.0`` is available.

This library provides a set of options. Refer to the chapter
:ref:`application_options` which lists all available options.


..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

remove classpath variable and point to module description file section

PlatformDeveloperGuide/uiMicroui.rst, after:

.. _section_microui:

=======
MicroUI
=======


Principle
=========

MicroUI library defines a low-level UI framework for embedded devices. This module allows the creation of basic Human-Machine-Interfaces (HMI), with output on a pixelated screen. For more information, please consult the :ref:`[MUI] Specification <esr-specifications>`.


.. _section_architecture:

Architecture
============

MicroUI library is the entry point to perform some drawings on a display and to interact with user input events. This library contains only a minimal set of basic APIs. High-level libraries can be used to have more expressive power. In addition with this restricted set of APIs, the MicroUI implementation has been designed so that the EDC and BON footprint is minimal. 

At MicroEJ application startup all MicroUI objects relative to the I/O devices are created and accessible. The following MicroUI methods allow you to access these internal objects:

-  ``Display.getDisplay()``: returns the instance of the display which drives the main LCD screen.

-  ``Leds.getNumberOfLeds()``: returns the numbers of available LEDs.

MicroUI is not a standalone library. It requires a configuration step and several extensions to drive I/O devices (display, inputs, LEDs).

First, MicroUI requires a configuration step in order to create these internal objects before the call to the ``main()`` method. The chapter :ref:`section_static_init` explains how to perform the configuration step.

.. note::

   This configuration step is the same for both embedded and simulation
   platforms.

The embedded platform requires some additional C libraries to drive the I/O devices. Each C library is dedicated to a specific kind of I/O device. A specific chapter is available to explain each kind of I/O device.

.. table:: MicroUI C libraries

   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | I/O devices                             | Extension Name  | Chapter                    |
   +=========================================+=================+============================+
   | Graphical / pixelated display (LCD      | Display         | :ref:`section_display`     |
   | screen)                                 |                 |                            |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | Inputs (buttons, joystick, touch,       | Input           | :ref:`section_input`       |
   | pointers etc.)                          |                 |                            |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
   | LEDs                                    | LEDs            | :ref:`section_leds`        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+

The simulation platform uses a mock which simulates all I/O devices.
Refer to the chapter :ref:`section_simulation`


Thread
=======

Principle
---------

The MicroUI implementation for MicroEJ uses one internal thread as described in :ref:`MicroUI specification <esr-specifications>`. This thread is created during the MicroUI initialization step, and is started by a call to ``MicroUI.start()``. 

Role
----

This thread is called ``UIPump``. It has two roles:

-  It manages all display events (``requestRender()``, ``requestShow()``, etc.)
-  It reads the I/O devices inputs and dispatches them into the event generators' listeners. See input section: :ref:`section_input`. 

Memory
------

The thread is always running. The user has to count it to determine the number of concurrent threads the MicroEJ Core Engine can run (see Memory options in :ref:`application_options`).

Exceptions
----------

The thread cannot be stopped with a Java exception: The exceptions are always checked by the framework.

When an exception occurs in a user method called by the internal thread (for instance ``render()``), the current ``UncaughtExceptionHandler`` receives the exception. When no exception handler is set, a default handler prints the stack trace.

Native Calls
============

The MicroUI implementation for MicroEJ uses native methods to perform some actions (read input devices events, perform drawings, turn on LEDs etc.). The library implementation has been designed to not use blocking native methods (wait input devices, wait end of drawing etc.) which can lock the full MicroJvm execution. 

The specification of the native methods is to perform the action as fast as possible. The action execution may be sequential or parallel because an action is able to use a third-party device (software or hardware). In this case, some callbacks are available to notify the end of this kind of parallel actions. 

However some actions have to wait the end of a previous parallel action. By consequence the caller thread is blocked until the previous action is done; in others words, until the previous parallel action has called its callback. In this case, only the current Java thread is locked (because it cannot continue its execution until the both actions are performed). All others Java threads can run, even a thread with a lower priority than current thread. If no thread has to be run, MicroJvm goes in sleep mode until the native callback is called.

Transparency
============

MicroUI provides several policies to use the transparency. These policies depend on several factors, including the kind of drawing and the LCD pixel rendering format. The main concept is that MicroUI does not allow you to draw something with a transparency level different from 255 (fully opaque). There are two exceptions: the images and the fonts.

Images
------

Drawing an image (a pre-generated image or an image decoded at runtime)
which contains some transparency levels does not depend on the LCD pixel
rendering format. During the image drawing, each pixel is converted into
32 bits by pixel format.

This pixel format contains 8 bits to store the transparency level
(alpha). This byte is used to merge the foreground pixel (image
transparent pixel) with the background pixel (LCD buffer opaque pixel).
The formula to obtain the pixel is:

.. math::

   {\alpha}Mult = {\alpha}FG * {\alpha}BG) / 255

.. math::

   {\alpha}Out = {\alpha}FG + {\alpha}BG - {\alpha}Mult

.. math::

   COut = (CFG * {\alpha}FG + CBG * {\alpha}BG - CBG * {\alpha}Mult) / {\alpha}Out 

where:

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *FG* is the alpha level of the foreground pixel (layer pixel)

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *BG* is the alpha level of the background pixel (working buffer
   pixel)

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *xx* is a color component of a pixel (Red, Green or Blue).

-  :math:`{\alpha}`\ *Out* is the alpha level of the final pixel

Fonts
-----

A font holds only a transparency level (alpha). This fixed alpha level
is defined during the pre-generation of a font (see
:ref:`section_fonts`).

-  ``1`` means 2 levels are managed: fully opaque and fully transparent.

-  ``2`` means 4 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent and
   2 intermediate levels.

-  ``4`` means 16 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent
   and 14 intermediate levels.

-  ``8`` means 256 levels are managed: fully opaque, fully transparent
   and 254 intermediate levels.

.. _section_microui_installation:

Installation
============

The MicroUI library is an additional module. In the platform
configuration file, check :guilabel:`UI` > :guilabel:`MicroUI` to install the library.
When checked, the XML file :guilabel:`microui` > :guilabel:`microui.xml` is required
during platform creation in order to configure the module. This
configuration step is used to extend the MicroUI library. Refer to the
chapter :ref:`section_static_init` for more information about the
MicroUI Initialization step.


Use
===

The `MicroUI API module <https://repository.microej.com/artifacts/ej/api/microui/>`_
must be added to the :ref:`module.ivy <mmm_module_description>` of the MicroEJ
Application project:

::

  <dependency org="ej.api" name="microui" rev="3.3.0"/>

This library provides a set of options. Refer to the chapter
:ref:`application_options` which lists all available options.


..
   | Copyright 2008-2020, MicroEJ Corp. Content in this space is free 
   for read and redistribute. Except if otherwise stated, modification 
   is subject to MicroEJ Corp prior approval.
   | MicroEJ is a trademark of MicroEJ Corp. All other trademarks and 
   copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
